CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Multiple observation types reduce uncertainty in Australia's terrestrial carbon and water cycles..  This work is about Information about the carbon cycle potentially constrains the water cycle, and vice versa. This paper explores the utility of multiple observation sets to constrain a land surface model of Australian terrestrial carbon and water cycles, and the resulting mean carbon pools and fluxes, as well as their temporal and spatial variability. Observations 5 include streamflow from 416 gauged catchments, measurements of evapotranspiration (ET) and net ecosystem production (NEP) from 12 eddy-flux sites, litterfall data, and data on carbon pools. By projecting residuals between observations and corresponding predictions onto uncertainty in model predictions at the continental scale, we find that eddy flux measurements provide a significantly tighter constraint on continental 10 net primary production (NPP) than the other data types. Nonetheless, simultaneous constraint by multiple data types is important for mitigating bias from any single type. Four significant results emerging from the multiply-constrained model are that, for the 1990–2011 period:(i) on the Australian continent, a predominantly semi-arid region, over half the water loss through ET (0.64±0.05) occurs through soil evapora-15 tion and bypasses plants entirely;(ii) mean Australian NPP is quantified at 2.2±0.4 (1σ) Pg C yr− 1;(iii) annually cyclic (“grassy”) vegetation and persistent (“woody”) vegetation account for 0.56±0.14 and 0.43±0.14, respectively of NPP across Australia;(iv) the average interannual variability of Australia’s NEP (±0.18 Pg C yr− 1, 1σ) is larger than Australia’s total anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions in 2011 20 (0.149 Pg C equivalent yr− 1), and is dominated by variability in …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Biomasa y mineralomasa subterráneas del encinar de La Castanya, Montseny.  This work is about Biomasa y mineralomasa subterráneas del encinar de La Castanya, Montseny — Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona Research Portal Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona Research Portal Home Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona Research Portal Logo Help & FAQ Home Profiles Research Units Projects Research output Search by expertise, name or affiliation Biomasa y mineralomasa subterráneas del encinar de La Castanya, Montseny F. Rodà, José Canadell Gili Department of Animal Biology, Plant Biology and Ecology Research output: Contribution to journal › Article › Research Overview Original language English Pages (from-to) 13-18 Journal Options méditerr., Sér. A.: Sémin. Méditerr. Volume 3 Publication status Published - 1 Jan 1989 Cite this APA Author BIBTEX Harvard Standard RIS Vancouver Powered by Pure, Scopus & Elsevier Fingerprint …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Largely underestimated carbon emission from land use and land cover change in the conterminous United States.  This work is about Carbon (C) emission and uptake due to land use and land cover change (LULCC) are the most uncertain term in the global carbon budget primarily due to limited LULCC data and inadequate model capability (e.g., underrepresented agricultural managements). We take the commonly used FAOSTAT‐based global Land Use Harmonization data (LUH2) and a new high‐resolution multisource harmonized national LULCC database (YLmap) to drive a land ecosystem model (DLEM) in the conterminous United States. We found that recent cropland abandonment and forest recovery may have been overestimated in the LUH2 data derived from national statistics, causing previously reported C emissions from land use have been underestimated due to the definition of cropland and aggregated LULCC signals at coarse resolution. This overestimation leads to a strong C sink (30.3 ± 2.5 Tg C/year) in model simulations …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Higher than expected CO2 fertilization inferred from leaf to global observations.  This work is about Several lines of evidence point to an increase in the activity of the terrestrial biosphere over recent decades, impacting the global net land carbon sink (NLS) and its control on the growth of atmospheric carbon dioxide (ca). Global terrestrial gross primary production (GPP)—the rate of carbon fixation by photosynthesis—is estimated to have risen by (31 ± 5)% since 1900, but the relative contributions of different putative drivers to this increase are not well known. Here we identify the rising atmospheric CO2 concentration as the dominant driver. We reconcile leaf‐level and global atmospheric constraints on trends in modeled biospheric activity to reveal a global CO2 fertilization effect on photosynthesis of 30% since 1900, or 47% for a doubling of ca above the pre‐industrial level. Our historic value is nearly twice as high as current estimates (17 ± 4)% that do not use the full range of available constraints. Consequently …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Quantification of global and national nitrogen budgets for crop production.  This work is about Input–output estimates of nitrogen on cropland are essential for improving nitrogen management and better understanding the global nitrogen cycle. Here, we compare 13 nitrogen budget datasets covering 115 countries and regions over 1961–2015. Although most datasets showed similar spatiotemporal patterns, some annual estimates varied widely among them, resulting in large ranges and uncertainty. In 2010, global medians (in TgN yr−1) and associated minimum–maximum ranges were 73 (64–84) for global harvested crop nitrogen; 161 (139–192) for total nitrogen inputs; 86 (68–97) for nitrogen surplus; and 46% (40–53%) for nitrogen use efficiency. Some of the most uncertain nitrogen budget terms by country showed ranges as large as their medians, revealing areas for improvement. A benchmark nitrogen budget dataset, derived from central tendencies of the original datasets, can be used in model …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Evaluation of terrestrial carbon cycle models for their response to climate variability and to CO2 trends.  This work is about The purpose of this study was to evaluate 10 process‐based terrestrial biosphere models that were used for the IPCC fifth Assessment Report. The simulated gross primary productivity (GPP) is compared with flux‐tower‐based estimates by Jung et al. [Journal of Geophysical Research 116 (2011) G00J07] (JU11). The net primary productivity (NPP) apparent sensitivity to climate variability and atmospheric CO2 trends is diagnosed from each model output, using statistical functions. The temperature sensitivity is compared against ecosystem field warming experiments results. The CO2 sensitivity of NPP is compared to the results from four Free‐Air CO2 Enrichment (FACE) experiments. The simulated global net biome productivity (NBP) is compared with the residual land sink (RLS) of the global carbon budget from Friedlingstein et al. [Nature Geoscience 3 (2010) 811] (FR10). We found that models produce a higher …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Variation in tissue element concentrations in Quercus ilex L. over a range of different soils.  This work is about In order to study the variability in nutrient concentrations in four tissues of Q. ilex in relation to soil properties, we selected fifteen stands in both Quercus ilex forests and Q. ilex-Pinus halepensis mixed forests. These stands had developed on soils derived from eight different parent materials. Three soil groups were differentiated according to their chemical properties: calcareous soils, siliceous soils, and volcanic soils. Across sites, nutrient concentrations were generally less variable in current-year tissues than in older tissues. Nitrogen and potassium showed the lowest variability among sites, their concentrations in current-year leaves ranging from 1.17% to 1.39% for N and from 0.53% to 0.68% for K. There were few statistically significant correlations between tissue element concentrations, the most frequent being the antagonistic relationship between calcium and magnesium. Nitrogen concentration in …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Emissions from the oil and gas sectors, coal mining and ruminant farming drive methane growth over the past three decades.  This work is about Methane (CH 4) is an important greenhouse gas and plays a significant role in tropospheric and stratospheric chemistry. Despite the relevance of methane (CH 4) in human-induced climate change and air pollution chemistry, there is no scientific consensus on the causes of changes in its growth rates and variability over the past three decades. We use a well-validated chemistry–transport model for simulating CH 4 concentration and estimation of regional CH 4 emissions by inverse modeling during 1988–2016. The control simulations are conducted using seasonally varying hydroxyl (OH) concentrations and assumed no interannual variability. Using inverse modeling of atmospheric observations, emission inventories, a wetland model, and a δ 13 C-CH 4 box model, we show that reductions in emissions from Europe and Russia since 1988, particularly from oil–gas exploitation and enteric fermentation, led to decreased CH 4 growth rates in the 1990s. This period was followed by a quasi-stationary state of CH 4 in the atmosphere during the early 2000s. CH 4 resumed growth from 2007, which we attribute to increases in emissions from coal mining mainly in China and the intensification of ruminant farming in tropical regions. A sensitivity simulation using interannually varying OH shows that regional emission estimates by inversion are unaffected for the mid-and high latitude areas. We show that meridional shift in CH 4 emissions toward the lower latitudes and the increase in CH 4 loss by hydroxyl (OH) over the tropics finely balance out, keeping the CH 4 gradients between the southern hemispheric tropical and polar sites relatively unchanged …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Trends in the sources and sinks of carbon dioxide.  This work is about Efforts to control climate change require the stabilization of atmospheric CO2 concentrations. This can only be achieved through a drastic reduction of global CO2 emissions. Yet fossil fuel emissions increased by 29% between 2000 and 2008, in conjunction with increased contributions from emerging economies, from the production and international trade of goods and services, and from the use of coal as a fuel source. In contrast, emissions from land-use changes were nearly constant. Between 1959 and 2008, 43% of each year's CO2 emissions remained in the atmosphere on average; the rest was absorbed by carbon sinks on land and in the oceans. In the past 50 years, the fraction of CO2 emissions that remains in the atmosphere each year has likely increased, from about 40% to 45%, and models suggest that this trend was caused by a decrease in the uptake of CO2 by the carbon sinks in response to climate …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global Carbon Project: the Global Carbon Budget 2015 (V. 1.0., issued Nov. 2015 and V. 1.1, issued Dec. 2015).  This work is about Accurate assessment of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere is important to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the development of climate policies, and project future climate change. Here we describe data sets and a methodology to quantify all major components of the global carbon budget, including their uncertainties, based on the combination of a range of data, algorithms, statistics, and model estimates and their interpretation by a broad scientific community. We discuss changes compared to previous estimates as well as consistency within and among components, alongside methodology and data limitations.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Current and Future Remote Sensing of Harmful Algal Blooms in the Chesapeake Bay to Support the Shellfish Industry.  This work is about Harmful algal bloom (HAB) species in the Chesapeake Bay can negatively impact fish, shellfish, and human health via the production of toxins and the degradation of water quality. Due to the deleterious effects of HAB species on economically and environmentally important resources, such as oyster reef systems, Bay area resource managers are seeking ways to monitor HABs and water quality at large spatial and fine temporal scales. The use of satellite ocean color imagery has proven to be a beneficial tool for resource management in other locations around the world where high-biomass, nearly monospecific HABs occur. However, remotely monitoring HABs in the Chesapeake Bay is complicated by the presence of multiple, often co-occurring, species and optically complex waters. Here we present a summary of common marine and estuarine HAB species found in the Chesapeake Bay, Alexandrium monilatum, Karlodinium veneficum, Margalefidinium polykrikoides, and Prorocentrum minimum, that have been detected from space using multispectral data products from the Ocean and Land Colour Imager (OLCI) sensor on the Sentinel-3 satellites and identified based on in situ phytoplankton data and ecological associations. We review how future hyperspectral instruments will improve discrimination of potentially harmful species from other phytoplankton communities and present a framework in which satellite data products could aid Chesapeake Bay resource managers with monitoring water quality and protecting shellfish resources.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Multiple Observation Types Jointly Constrain Terrestrial Carbon and Water Cycles.  This work is about Information about the carbon cycle potentially constrains the water cycle, and vice versa. This paper explores the utility of multiple observation sets to constrain carbon and water fluxes and stores in a land surface model, and a resulting determination of the Australian terrestrial carbon budget. Observations include streamflow from 416 gauged catchments, measurements of evapotranspiration (ET) and net ecosystem production (NEP) from 12 eddy-flux sites, litterfall data, and data on carbon pools. The model is a version of CABLE (the Community Atmosphere-Biosphere-Land Exchange model), coupled with CASAcnp (a biogeochemical model) and SLI (Soil-Litter-Iso, a soil hydrology model including liquid and vapour water fluxes and the effects of litter). By projecting observation-prediction residuals onto model uncertainty, we find that eddy flux measurements provide a significantly tighter constraint on Australian …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: New observations suggest vulnerability of the carbon sink in tropical rainforests.  This work is about Terrestrial ecosystems have slowed global climate change by sequestering carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere (Denman et al. 2007; Canadell et al. 2007) and tropical rainforests contribute to this significantly (Gurney et al. 2002, Sabine et al. 2004, Stephens et al. 2007). Whether rainforests will continue to be a net sink for carbon (C) in the future is an important and open question. The current expectation that rainforests will increasingly absorb anthropogenic C emissions in this century is largely based on coupled global modelling with some support from field studies. However, by considering long-term demographic processes such as tree mortality, we report that the capacity of rainforests to store C is more likely to decrease with global warming by approximately 20 Pg C per degree of warming, implying more rapid growth of global atmospheric CO2 and consequent climate change than is now anticipated …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Increased nitrous oxide emissions in East Asia as estimated by bottom-up and top-down approaches.  This work is about Nitrous oxide (N2O) is the third most important greenhouse gas. Since the early 1980s, East Asia (including China, Mongolia, Japan, South Korea and North Korea) has experienced rapid agricultural and industrial developments, accompanied by increased fertilizer use, manure application and atmospheric N deposition; however, the trend and drivers of the associated nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions in this region remain uncertain. Here we use bottom-up (BU: Terrestrial Biosphere Models, emission inventories, and statistical models) and top-down (TD: three inversion frameworks) approaches to estimate the magnitude and trend of N2O emissions in East Asia between 1980 and 2016 and quantify the contributions of different drivers. The results suggest that, for East Asia total emissions, the BU ensemble mean (1.7 Tg N-N2O yr-1) is close to the TD ensemble mean (1.6 Tg N-N2O yr-1) over 2007-2016. A similar …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global methane budget 2000-2012: main points and next steps.  This work is about With a lifetime around 9 years in the atmosphere and a diversity of emission types, atmospheric methane, the second anthropogenic greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide, is a major target for climate change mitigation. Atmospheric observations include a large variety of in-situ and remote-sensed observations from the surface or from space. These data are assimilated in atmospheric inversion to infer methane emissions and sinks (top-down approaches). In parallel, a large international effort is conducted to model processes emitting methane at the surface (eg wetland emissions) or destroying methane in the atmosphere (eg OH radicals), but also to compile inventories of anthropogenic emissions (bottom-up approaches). Large uncertainties remain in the spatio-temporal quantification of methane sources and sinks. Here, we present a synthesis of global and regional methane emissions and sinks for the period …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Simulating the Earth System Response to Negative Emissions.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global methane budget 2000-2012. What's next?.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Development of wildfires in Australia over the last century.  This work is about Wildfires and their emissions are key biospheric processes in the modeling of the carbon cycle that still are insufficiently understood. In Australia, fire emissions constitute a large flux of carbon from the biosphere to the atmosphere of approximately 1.3 times larger than the annual fossil fuel emissions. In addition, fire plays a big role in determining the composition of vegetation which in turn affects land-atmosphere fluxes. Annualy, up to 4% of the vegetated land-surface area is burned which amounts to up to 3% of global NPP and results in the reslease of about 2 Pg carbon into the atmosphere. There are indications that burned area has decreased globally over recent decades but so far there is not a clear trend in the development in fire-intensity and fuel availability. Net emissions from wildfires are not generally included in global and regional carbon budgets, because it is assumed that gross fire emissions are in …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Regional trends in the land carbon cycle and the underlying mechanisms over the period, 1980-2008.  This work is about In this study we identify regional trends in the land carbon cycle and investigate their underlying mechanisms for the period 1980-2008. A set of Dynamic Global Vegetation Models are run over the historical period 1901-2008. We output an extended list of variables in order to evaluate the model results against a wide range of evidence covering both hydrological and carbon related variables. We explain simulated regional carbon sink/source trends in terms of the land response to regional changes in temperature, precipitation and radiation over this period, and their differential response on plant productivity and heterotrophic respiration. Results show that in some key regions the DGVM response is due to recent trends in reduced precipitation. Separate EO derived soil moisture data are in line with these findings in showing reductions in soil moisture over these key regions.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: FLUXNET-CH.  This work is about Atmospheric methane (CH4) is the second-most important anthropogenic greenhouse gas following carbon dioxide (CO2)(Myhre et al. 2013). The concentration of CH4 in the atmosphere today is about 2.5 times higher than in 1750 (Saunois et al. 2016a). The increase in atmospheric CH4 has arisen from human activities in agriculture, energy production, and waste disposal, and from changes in natural CH4 sources and sinks (Saunois et al. 2016a, b, 2017; Turner et al. 2019). Based on top-down atmospheric inversions, global CH4 emissions for the decade of 2003–12 were an estimated~ 420 Tg C yr–1 (range 405–426 Tg C yr–1)(Saunois et al. 2016a). However, some analyses suggest that uncertainties in global CH4 sources and sinks are higher than those for CO2, and uncertainties from natural sources exceed those from anthropogenic emissions (Saunois et al. 2016a). In particular, the largest source of uncertainty in the global CH4 budget is related to emissions from wetlands and inland waters (Saunois et al. 2016a; Melton et al. 2013; Bastviken et al. 2011). Wetland CH4 emissions may contribute as much as 25%–40% of the global total and are a leading source of interannual variability in total atmospheric CH4 concentrations (Bousquet et al. 2006; Chen and Prinn 2006; Saunois et al. 2016a).
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Yes, more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere helps plants grow, but it’s no excuse to downplay climate change.  This work is about So, to put it simply, humans are producing more carbon dioxide. This carbon dioxide is causing more plant growth, and a higher capacity to suck up carbon dioxide. This process is called the “carbon dioxide fertilisation effect”–a phenomenon when carbon emissions boost photosynthesis and, in turn, plant growth.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Climatic Responses of Tropical Ecosystems Control Variations in Atmospheric CO2 Growth Rates.  This work is about An understanding of the response of the atmospheric CO2 growth rate (CGR) to climate variations is a prerequisite for accurate assessments of the impacts of climate changes on the global carbon cycle and the vulnerability of ecosystems to future climatic extremes. Previous studies have highlighted the occurrence and intensity of El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) as important drivers of CGR variability, but the underlying biogeophysical mechanisms governing such connections remain unclear. In this study we identify a strong and persistent coupling (r2≈ 0.5) between interannual variations of CGR and tropical land-surface air-temperature (LSAT) over the past 50 years, with a 1 C tropical LSAT anomaly leading to a 3.5±0.6 PgC/yr CGR anomaly. We infer that the LSAT-CGR coupling is mainly contributed by the additive responses of heterotrophic respiration (Rh) and net primary production (NPP) to …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Trends in global terrestrial biomass over 1993-2012.  This work is about Vegetation change plays a critical role in the Earth's carbon budget and its associated radiative forcing in response to anthropogenic and natural climate change. Existing global estimates of aboveground biomass carbon (ABC) based on field survey data provide brief snapshots that are limited to forest ecosystems only. Here we use an entirely new remote sensing approach to derive global monthly ABC estimates for both forest and non-forest biomes during the last two decades from passive microwave observations onboard a series of satellites. We estimate that 65% of global ABC is in forests and 17% in savannas. Over the period 1993-2012, an insignificant decline trend was found globally, mostly resulting from the loss of tropical forests and net gains in mixed forests over boreal and temperate regions and tropical savannas and shrublands. Inter-annual ABC patterns are greatly influenced by the strong …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Observing a vulnerable carbon cycle.  This work is about The carbon cycle and indeed the entire earth system are now inextricably linked with human activities (Global Carbon Project 2003; Steffen et al. 2004; Field and Raupach 2004), so that the ‘carbon–climate–human system’constitutes a single, coupled entity in which interacting processes link all of its major components. Linking processes of primary significance include
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Maximum rooting depth of vegetation types at the global scale.  This work is about The depth at which plants are able to grow roots has important implications for the whole ecosystem hydrological balance, as well as for carbon and nutrient cycling. Here we summarize what we know about the maximum rooting depth of species belonging to the major terrestrial biomes. We found 290 observations of maximum rooting depth in the literature which covered 253 woody and herbaceous species. Maximum rooting depth ranged from 0.3 m for some tundra species to 68 m for Boscia albitrunca in the central Kalahari; 194 species had roots at least 2 m deep, 50 species had roots at a depth of 5 m or more, and 22 species had roots as deep as 10 m or more. The average for the globe was 4.6±0.5 m. Maximum rooting depth by biome was 2.0±0.3 m for boreal forest. 2.1±0.2 m for cropland, 9.5±2.4 m for desert, 5.2±0.8 m for sclerophyllous shrubland and forest, 3.9±0.4 m for temperate coniferous …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon analytics for net-zero emissions sustainable cities.  This work is about Consensus on carbon accounting approaches at city-level is lacking and analytic frameworks to systematically link carbon mitigation with the Sustainable Development Goals are limited. A new accounting approach anchored upon key physical provisioning systems can help to address these knowledge gaps and facilitate urban transitions.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global carbon budget 1959–2011.  This work is about Accurate assessments of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere is important to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the climate policy process, and project future climate change. Present-day analysis requires the combination of a range of data, algorithms, statistics and model estimates and their interpretation by a broad scientific community. Here we describe datasets and a methodology developed by the global carbon cycle science community to quantify all major components of the global carbon budget, including their uncertainties. We discuss changes compared to previous estimates, consistency within and among components, and methodology and data limitations. CO2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion and cement production (EFF) are based on energy statistics, while emissions from Land-Use Change (ELUC), including deforestation, are based on combined evidence from land cover change data, fire activity in regions undergoing deforestation, and models. The global atmospheric CO2 concentration is measured directly and its rate of growth (GATM) is computed from the concentration. The mean ocean CO2 sink (SOCEAN) is based on observations from the 1990s, while the annual anomalies and trends are estimated with ocean models. Finally, the global residual terrestrial CO2 sink (SLAND) is estimated by the difference of the other terms. For the last decade available (2002–2011), EFF was 8.3 ± 0.4 PgC yr−1, ELUC 1.0 ± 0.5 PgC yr−1, GATM 4.3 ± 0.1 PgC yr−1, SOCEAN 2.5 ± 0.5 PgC yr−1, and SLAND 2.6 ± 0.8 PgC yr−1 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global land project: Science plan and implementation strategy.  This work is about CSIRO Research Publications Repository - Global Land Project: science plan and implementation strategy Skip to Main Content CSIRO Home Research Publications Repository Contact Us Help CSIRO Login Username Password Search Publications Advanced Search Browse Publications Selected Records () Global Land Project: science plan and implementation strategy Description Select | OK Print Author: Moran, E.; Ojima, DS; Buchmann, B.; Canadell, JG; Coomes, O.; Graumlich, L.; Jackson, R.; Jaramillo, V.; Lavorel, S.; Leadley, P.; Matson, P.; Murdiyarso, D.; Porter, J.; Pfaff, A.; Pitelka, LF; Rajan, K.; Ramankutty, N.; Turner, B.; Yagi, K.; editors Date of Publication: 2005 Publication Type: Book Pages: 64 Publisher: IGBP Secretariat Place of Publication: Stockholm Keywords: Marine and Atmospheric Research Packaging Method: p. Series Title & No: IHDP report Series Volume Id: no. 19 ; IGBP report, no. 53 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Land use effects on terrestrial carbon sources and sinks.  This work is about Current and past land use practices are critical in determining the distribution and size of global terrestrial carbon (C) sources and sinks. Although fossil fuel emissions dominate the anthropogenic perturbation of the global C cycle, land use still drives the largest portion of anthropogenic emissions in a number of tropical regions of Asia. The size of the emission flux owing to land use change is still the biggest uncertainty in the global C budget. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reported a flux term of 1.7 PgCga− 1 for 1990ü1995 but more recent estimates suggest the magnitude of this source may be only of 0.96 PgCga− 1 for the 1990s. In addition, current and past land use practices are now thought to contribute to a large degree to the northern hemisphere terrestrial sink, and are the dominant driver for some regional sinks. However, mechanisms other than land use change need to be invoked in order to explain the inferred C sink in the tropics. Potential candidates are the carbon dioxide (CO2) fertilization and climate change; fertilization due to nitrogen (N) deposition is believed to be small or nil. Although the potential for managing C sinks is limited, improved land use management and new land uses such as reforestation and biomass fuel cropping, can further enhance current terrestrial C sinks. Best management practices in agriculture alone could sequester 0.4 ü0. 8 PgC per year in soils if implemented globally. New methodologies to ensure verification and permanency of C sequestration need to be developed.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global nitrous oxide emissions from pasturelands and rangelands: magnitude, spatiotemporal patterns, and attribution.  This work is about The application of manure and mineral nitrogen (N) fertilizer, and livestock excreta deposition are the main drivers of nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions in agricultural systems. However, the magnitude and spatiotemporal variations of N2O emissions due to different management practices (excreta deposition and manure/fertilizer application) from grassland ecosystems remain unclear. In this study, we used the Dynamic Land Ecosystem Model to simulate the spatiotemporal variation in global N2O emissions and their attribution to different sources from both intensively managed (pasturelands) and extensively managed (rangelands) grasslands during 1961–2014. Over the study period, pasturelands and rangelands experienced a significant increase in N2O emissions from 1.74 Tg N2O‐N in 1961 to 3.11 Tg N2O‐N in 2014 (p < 0.05). Globally, pasturelands and rangelands were responsible for 54% (2.2 Tg N2O‐N) of …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Residential energy consumption and associated carbon emission in forest rural area in China: A case study in Weichang County.  This work is about Rural energy consumption in China has increased dramatically in the last decades, and has become a significant contributor of carbon emissions. Yet there is limited data on energy consumption patterns and their evolution in forest rural areas of China. In order to bridge this gap, we report the findings of field surveys in forest villages in Weichang County as a case study of rural energy consumption in northern China. We found that the residential energy consumption per household is 3313 kgce yr−1 (kilogram standard coal equivalent per year), with energy content of 9.7 × 107 kJ yr−1, including 1783 kgce yr−1 from coal, 1386 kgce yr−1 from fuel wood, 96 kgce yr−1 from electricity, and 49 kgce yr−1 from LPG. Per capita consumption is 909 kgce yr−1 and its energy content is 2.7 × 107 kJ yr−1. Due to a total energy utilization efficiency of 24.6%, all the consumed energy can only supply about 2.4 × 107 kJ yr …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Non-linear responses and surprises: a new Earth System Science Initiative.  This work is about In areas with long-standing agricultural civilizations, such as China, India, the Middle East, Europe, parts of Africa and the Americas, much of the arable land has been modified/controlled by humans for centuries or millennia. Even in areas without large agricultural populations, humans used fire to modify vegetation. The spread of Europeans and their land use practices in the last several hundred years significantly impacted the landscapes around the world, as concurrent population increases and population movements (due to colonization and the slave trade) brought much more of the world under human management. Human impacts accelerated with the coming of the industrial revolution, but were significant in many parts of the world prior to the 1800s. These land use and land cover changes affected many aspects of the Earth surface-atmosphere system, including the carbon budget, ecosystems, and hydrology. However, these factors are poorly understood within the current IGBP framework. PAGES has focused on long-term climatic changes and their associated impacts, whereas LUCC has focused largely on landscape impacts of human activities during the last few decades. To address this shortfall, PAGES and LUCC, in collaboration with GAIM have initiated BIOME 300, a joint effort to reconstruct global patterns of land use and associated land cover changes since AD 1700. This work will involve a unique intersection of the interests and skills of archaeologists, historians, economists, demographers, ecologists, paleoecologists, palynologists, as well as ecological, climatic, and carbon-cycle modelers. An organizational workshop for …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Interactions between CO2 stabilisation pathways and requirements for a sustainable earth system.  This work is about Efforts to stabilize the atmospheric CO2 concentration take place within a fully coupled Earth system in which there are major interactions between the carbon cycle, the physical climate, and human activities. Hence it is necessary to consider atmospheric CO2 mitigation in the context of the Earth system as a whole and its long-term sustainability.“Sustainability” and “sustainable development” have been defined in a number of ways. The Brundtland Report (World Commission on Environment and Development 1987) defined sustainable development as “development that meets the needs of the present, without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” In practice, definitions of sustainable development hinge on several key issues: what has to be sustained, what has to be developed, for how long, and with what tradeoffs. It is necessary to consider economic, social, and environmental dimensions and to accommodate the different perspectives of each dimension as well as the interrelations between them. For the purposes of this chapter, we will follow the consensus of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development (1996), which identified the major challenges for global sustainable development as (1) combating poverty;(2) protecting the quality and supply of freshwater resources;(3) combating desertification and drought;(4) combating deforestation;(5) promoting sustainable agriculture and rural development; and (6) conserving biological diversity. To this list may be added the goal of the 1992 UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) of preventing dangerous anthropogenic …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Large loss and rapid recovery of vegetation cover and aboveground biomass over forest areas in Australia during 2019–2020.  This work is about Australia experienced multi-year drought and record high temperatures, and massive forest fires occurred across the southeast in 2019 and early 2020. In the fire-affected forest areas, understory and often tree canopies were burned, and in-situ observations in late 2020 reported rapid vegetation recovery, including grasses, shrubs, and tree canopies from burned-but-not-dead eucalyptus trees. Considering the strong fire resilience and resistance of eucalyptus trees and above-average rainfall in 2020, we assessed how much and how quickly vegetation structure and biomass changed from loss to post-fire and drought recovery in 2020 for all forest areas in Australia. Here, we analyzed space-borne optical, thermal, and microwave images to assess changes in the structure and function of vegetation using four vegetation indices (VIs), leaf area index (LAI), solar-induced chlorophyll fluorescence (SIF), gross primary …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon reductions and offsets.  This work is about A growing awareness about climate change by individuals, institutions and businesses has generated demand for CO2 reductions for specific activities or for offsetting their full carbon footprints. Decisions to adopt such a practice are driven by business profit, environmental commitment, civil responsibility and leadership. The recently established voluntary carbon market is gaining momentum as growth in the demand for CO2 reductions is outpacing the wider introduction of low-carbon technologies in transport, energy production and manufacturingWhile there are concerns related to the voluntary and unregulated nature of this market, new robust standards, reporting and verification along with broad project implementation are raising confidence in the system. The impact of voluntary carbon offsets will increase as the economic analysis of the carbon market gains a wider acceptance and more speculative investors support it.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: .  This work is about Climate change due to greenhouse gas emissions is predicted to raise the mean global temperature by 1.0–3.5°C in the next 50–100 years. The direct and indirect effects of this potential increase in temperature on terrestrial ecosystems and ecosystem processes are likely to be complex and highly varied in time and space. The Global Change and Terrestrial Ecosystems core project of the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme has recently launched a Network of Ecosystem Warming Studies, the goals of which are to integrate and foster research on ecosystem-level effects of rising temperature. In this paper, we use meta-analysis to synthesize data on the response of soil respiration, net N mineralization, and aboveground plant productivity to experimental ecosystem warming at 32 research sites representing four broadly defined biomes, including high (latitude or altitude) tundra, low tundra …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Data-driven estimates of global nitrous oxide emissions from croplands.  This work is about Croplands are the single largest anthropogenic source of nitrous oxide (N2O) globally, yet their estimates remain difficult to verify when using Tier 1 and 3 methods of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Here, we re-evaluate global cropland-N2O emissions in 1961–2014, using N-rate-dependent emission factors (EFs) upscaled from 1206 field observations in 180 global distributed sites and high-resolution N inputs disaggregated from sub-national surveys covering 15593 administrative units. Our results confirm IPCC Tier 1 default EFs for upland crops in 1990–2014, but give a ∼15% lower EF in 1961–1989 and a ∼67% larger EF for paddy rice over the full period. Associated emissions (0.82 ± 0.34 Tg N yr–1) are probably one-quarter lower than IPCC Tier 1 global inventories but close to Tier 3 estimates. The use of survey-based gridded N-input data contributes 58% of this emission …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A new version of the CABLE land surface model (Subversion revision r4601) incorporating land use and land cover change, woody vegetation demography, and a novel optimisation-based approach to plant coordination of photosynthesis.  This work is about The Community Atmosphere–Biosphere Land Exchange model (CABLE) is a land surface model (LSM) that can be applied stand-alone and provides the land surface–atmosphere exchange within the Australian Community Climate and Earth System Simulator (ACCESS). We describe new developments that extend the applicability of CABLE for regional and global carbon–climate simulations, accounting for vegetation responses to biophysical and anthropogenic forcings. A land use and land cover change module driven by gross land use transitions and wood harvest area was implemented, tailored to the needs of the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project 6 (CMIP6). Novel aspects include the treatment of secondary woody vegetation, which benefits from a tight coupling between the land use module and the Population Orders Physiology (POP) module for woody demography and disturbance-mediated landscape heterogeneity. Land use transitions and harvest associated with secondary forest tiles modify the annually resolved patch age distribution within secondary vegetated tiles, in turn affecting biomass accumulation and turnover rates and hence the magnitude of the secondary forest sink. Additionally, we implemented a novel approach to constrain modelled GPP consistent with the coordination hypothesis and predicted by evolutionary theory, which suggests that electron-transport- and Rubisco-limited rates adjust seasonally and across biomes to be co-limiting. We show that the default prior assumption – common to CABLE and other LSMs – of a fixed ratio of electron transport to carboxylation capacity at standard temperature ( …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Three decades of global methane sources and sinks.  This work is about Methane is an important greenhouse gas, responsible for about 20% of the warming induced by long-lived greenhouse gases since pre-industrial times. By reacting with hydroxyl radicals, methane reduces the oxidizing capacity of the atmosphere and generates ozone in the troposphere. Although most sources and sinks of methane have been identified, their relative contributions to atmospheric methane levels are highly uncertain. As such, the factors responsible for the observed stabilization of atmospheric methane levels in the early 2000s, and the renewed rise after 2006, remain unclear. Here, we construct decadal budgets for methane sources and sinks between 1980 and 2010, using a combination of atmospheric measurements and results from chemical transport models, ecosystem models, climate chemistry models and inventories of anthropogenic emissions. The resultant budgets suggest that data-driven …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Atmospheric methane removal: a research agenda.  This work is about Atmospheric methane removal (e.g. in situ methane oxidation to carbon dioxide) may be needed to offset continued methane release and limit the global warming contribution of this potent greenhouse gas. Because mitigating most anthropogenic emissions of methane is uncertain this century, and sudden methane releases from the Arctic or elsewhere cannot be excluded, technologies for methane removal or oxidation may be required. Carbon dioxide removal has an increasingly well-established research agenda and technological foundation. No similar framework exists for methane removal. We believe that a research agenda for negative methane emissions—‘removal' or atmospheric methane oxidation—is needed. We outline some considerations for such an agenda here, including a proposed Methane Removal Model Intercomparison Project (MR-MIP).This article is part of a discussion meeting issue 'Rising …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Quantifying the impacts of vegetation changes on catchment storage‐discharge dynamics using paired‐catchment data.  This work is about It is widely recognized that vegetation changes can significantly affect the local water availability. Methods have been developed to predict the effects of vegetation change on water yield or total streamflow. However, it is still a challenge to predict changes in base flow following vegetation change due to limited understanding of catchment storage‐discharge dynamics. In this study, the power law relationship for describing catchment storage‐discharge dynamics is reformulated to quantify the changes in storage‐discharge relationship resulting from vegetation changes using streamflow data from six paired‐catchment experiments, of which two are deforestation catchments and four are afforestation catchments. Streamflow observations from the paired‐catchment experiments clearly demonstrate that vegetation changes have led to significant changes in catchment storage‐discharge relationships, accounting for …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: State and Trends of the Global Carbon Budget.  This work is about Long-term redistribution of carbon among fossil fuel reserves, the atmosphere, oceans and land largely determines the degree of the human perturbation of the atmosphere and the climate system. Here I'll show a number of diagnostics to characterize changes in the global carbon cycle, including: 1) the continued growth in atmospheric CO2 despite an apparent stabilization in the growth of fossil fuel emissions and the likely emissions decline from land use change; 2) the growth in the land and ocean sinks in response to the rise in excess atmospheric CO2 with large annual and decadal variability; and 3) key drivers of these trends including the global greening, spatial distribution of carbons sinks, and responses to inter-annual variability. Efforts to attribute driving processes to the growing sinks require a strong CO2 fertilization effect on vegetation growth and emerging trends show an under realized role of semiarid …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Regional Budgets, Trends, and Drivers of Major Greenhouse Gases (N2O, CH4, and CO2) II.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: ESSP Research on Bioenergy and Earth Sustainability: Tapping GEC Programme-Wide Expertise for the Benefit of Science and Society. IHDP Update.  This work is about ESSP Research on Bioenergy and Earth Sustainability: Tapping GEC Programme-Wide Expertise for the Benefit of Science and Society. IHDP Update FAO_logo AGRIS home-icon English Español Français العربية 中文 Русский Journal Article Journal Article ESSP Research on Bioenergy and Earth Sustainability: Tapping GEC Programme-Wide Expertise for the Benefit of Science and Society. IHDP Update [2008] Klepper, G.; Canadell, P.; Leemans, R.; Ometto, JP; et al. Access the full text NOT AVAILABLE Lookup at Google Scholar google-logo From the journal IHDP Update ISSN : 1727-155X Bibliographic information Language: English Type: Journal Article In AGRIS since: 2012 Extent: 31 - 36 All titles: "ESSP Research on Bioenergy and Earth Sustainability: Tapping GEC Programme-Wide Expertise for the Benefit of Science and Society. IHDP Update"@eng Loading... Translate with Google Access the full text …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The carbon budget of South Asia..  This work is about The source and sinks of carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) due to anthropogenic and natural biospheric activities were estimated for the South Asia region (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka). Flux estimates were based on top-down methods that use inversions of atmospheric data, and 5 bottom-up methods that use field observations, satellite data, and terrestrial ecosystem models. Based on atmospheric CO2 inversions, the net biospheric CO2 flux in South Asia (equivalent to the Net Biome Productivity, NBP) was a sink, estimated at− 104±150 Tg C yr− 1 during 2007–2008. Based on the bottom-up approach, the net biospheric CO2 flux is estimated to be− 191±193 Tg C yr− 1 during the period 10 of 2000–2009. This last net flux results from the following flux components:(1) the Net Ecosystem Productivity, NEP (net primary production minus heterotrophic respiration) of− 220±186 Tg C yr− 1 (2) the annual net carbon flux from land-use change of− 14±50 Tg C yr− 1, which resulted from a sink of− 16 Tg C yr− 1 due to the establishment of tree plantations and wood harvest, and a source of 2TgCyr− 1 due to the expan-15 sion of croplands;(3) the riverine export flux from terrestrial ecosystems to the coastal oceans of+ 42.9 Tg C yr− 1; and (4) the net CO2 emission due to biomass burning of+ 44.1±13.7 Tg C yr− 1. Including the emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels of 444 Tg C yr− 1 for the decades of 2000s, we estimate a net CO2 land-to-atmosphere flux of 297 Tg C yr− 1. In addition to CO2, a fraction of the sequestered carbon in terrestrial 20 ecosystems is released to the atmosphere as CH4. Based on bottom …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Implications of accounting for mesophyll conductance, temperature acclimation, and coordination in a land surface model photosynthesis scheme.  This work is about An accurate representation of photosynthesis in land surface models is critical for assessing the capacity of the terrestrial biosphere to take up carbon in a changing climate. We present results from an improved physiology scheme embedded in the land surface model CABLE, which extends the standard Farquhar et al. 1980 representation of photosynthesis by three mechanisms: 1) mesophyll conductance, which reduces the CO 2 concentration available for photosynthesis, 2) photosynthetic acclimation to temperature, which adjusts the temperature response of biochemical rates depending on growth temperature, and 3) photosynthetic coordination, which regulates the within-canopy distribution of nitrogen to achieve a more balanced limitation of canopy photosynthesis by light-and Rubisco limited rates. Results from site-level simulations for a diverse set of Australian ecosystems ranging from temperate forests to …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Emergent Hydrological Regimes in Amazonia Determine Vegetation Productivity and Structure..  This work is about The Amazon rain forest has a disproportionate significance for global CO2 storage and biodiversity. Earth system models (ESMs) that estimate future climate and vegetation show little agreement in simulations in Amazonia. Here we show that evapotranspiration (ET), gross primary productivity (GPP) and above ground biomass in both models and empirical data align on an emergent hydrologically determined relationship that describes a functional relationship with annual precipitation (P). The physical relationship describes the potential for plant productivity and has a breakpoint at 2000 mm annual precipitation, where the system transitions between water and radiation limitation of annual ET. While ESM GPP is generally underestimated due to a low-bias in their internally generated P, their response to annual precipitation generally matches empirical data. It is different for biomass: ESMs show some ability in …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon-cycle implications of asymmetry in response of semi-arid ecosystem phenology and productivity to rainfall.  This work is about Semi-arid savannahs and shrublands of the tropics and subtropics play a key role in the inter-annual variability of the global carbon cycle and are emerging as an important player-comparable with tropical forests-in terms of their contribution to the ongoing sink trend of the carbon exchange between the global land surface and atmosphere. Both the variability and carbon balance trend of the savannah-shrubland biome are characterised by shifting phenology, mediated by changes in the seasonality and relative contributions to ecosystem productivity of woody vegetation elements and grasses. Shifts in water availability associated with the impacts of global circulation systems on the distribution and amount of rainfall are a key driver of vegetation response in these ecosystems, which tolerate drought, but spring to life, becoming highly productive, during episodes of ample water supply. This" boom or bust" behaviour …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Enhanced terrestrial carbon uptake: global drivers and implications for the growth rate of atmospheric CO2..  This work is about In this presentation we will focus on using decadal changes in the global carbon cycle to better understand how ecosystems respond to changes in CO2 concentration, temperature, and water and nutrient availability. Using global carbon budget estimates, ground, atmospheric and satellite observations, and multiple process-based global vegetation models, we examine the causes and consequences of the long-term changes in the terrestrial carbon sink. We show that over the past century the sink has been greatly enhanced, largely due to the effect of elevated CO2 on photosynthesis dominating over warming induced increases in respiration. We also examine the relative roles of greening, water and nutrients, along with individual events such as El Nino. We show that a slowdown in the rate of warming over land since the start of the 21st century likely led to a large increase in the sink, and that this increase was …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Negative Emissions Technologies: New Developments and Scientific Challenges.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Vulnerability of Permafrost Carbon: Results from a Research Coordination Network Survey.  This work is about Approximately 1700 Pg of soil carbon are stored in the northern circumpolar permafrost zone, more than twice as much carbon than currently contained in the atmosphere. Permafrost thaw, and the microbial decomposition of previously frozen organic carbon, is considered one of the likely positive feedbacks from terrestrial ecosystems to the atmosphere in a warmer world. Yet, the rate and form of release is highly uncertain but crucial for predicting the strength and timing of this carbon cycle feedback this century and beyond. Here we report on the formation of a new research coordination network (RCN) whose objective is to link biological C cycle research with networks focused on the thermal state of permafrost. We found that published literature in the SCI identified with the search terms ‘permafrost’and ‘carbon’have increased dramatically in the last decade. Of total publications including those keywords, 86% were published since 2000, 65% since 2005, and 36% since 2008. Interconnection through this RCN is designed to produce new knowledge through research synthesis that can be used to quantify the role of permafrost carbon in driving climate change.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global Fossil CO2 Emissions: Global Carbon Project.  This work is about Global Fossil CO2 Emissions:Global Carbon Project - UEA Digital Repository AZ Index Text Size A A A High ContrastNormal Contrast UEA Logo University of East Anglia - UEA Home About Us 10 Reasons to Choose Us A - Z Index Accommodation Campus Life Getting to UEA Video Prospectus Courses Undergraduate Postgraduate Taught Postgraduate Research Get Course Information and a Prospectus International Pre-Entry and Foundation Learning Shop Short Courses Part-time Study Professional Development Courses Schools Faculty of Arts and Humanities Faculty of Health Faculty of Science Faculty of Social Sciences INTO University of East Anglia UEA London Research Research Assessment Exercise Research Performance Rankings Research Collaborations Norwich Research Park Research Governance and Policies Schools of Study RS Connections Business Business Home Working with our …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Regional Budgets, Trends, and Drivers of Major Greenhouse Gases (N2O, CH4, and CO2) III Posters.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: CARBON REDUCTIONS AND OFFSETS 15 July 2007 A GCP report for the ESSP.  This work is about Growing awareness of climate change has generated demand for CO2 reductions by individuals, institutions and businesses for specific activities and for offsetting their full carbon footprints. These decisions are mainly driven by business profit, environmental commitment, civil responsibility, and leadership goals. The recently established voluntary carbon market is gaining momentum as growth in the demand for CO2 reductions is outpacing the wider introduction of lowcarbon technologies in transport, energy production and manufacturing.While there are concerns related to the voluntary and unregulated nature of this market, new robust standards, reporting and verification, along with broad project implementation are raising confidence in the system. The impact of voluntary carbon offsets is increasing as the economic analysis of the carbon market gains wider acceptance and the support of more speculative investors.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global high-resolution nitrous oxide emission inventory for energy combustion sector.  This work is about Nitrous oxide (N2O) is one of most important greenhouse gases, where emission from energy combustion is still largely uncertain. High-resolution mapping of N2O emission provides valuable information for mitigating greenhouse gas emissions. This study adopted an update fuel consumption database, collected experimental emission factors from the literature, took into account the impacts of combustion technologies, combustion equipment and emission reduction measures on emission factors, and used the methods recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Based on these, a global emission inventory was compiled with high spatial (0.1× 0.1), temporal (monthly), and source (65 sources) resolutions for the period 1960 to 2014. The estimated emissions for period 1970-2008 were three times higher than EDGAR. N2O emissions experience an increasing trend (38 Gg N yr-2 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The size of the land carbon sink in China.  This work is about A substantial part of China’s anthropogenic emissions has been offset by its land carbon sink, which represents an important element in achieving carbon neutrality by 2060 1. Using newly released atmospheric CO2 measurements and an atmospheric inversion model, Wang et al. 2 estimated China’s land carbon sink to be 1.11±0.38 petagrams of carbon per year (Pg C yr− 1; positive values indicate net ecosystem carbon uptake) on average for the years 2010–2016, which is at least twice the previous inversion estimates of between 0.18 and 0.51 Pg C yr− 1 (refs. 3, 4)(Fig. 1. Here we show that the land carbon sink estimate by Wang et al. 2 is overestimated, because it is ecologically implausible and not supported by bottom-up evidence from ground and satellite observations, and the biases of representing Shangri-La site observations in a coarse-resolution transport model could have led to the extremely large …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Temporary reduction in daily global CO2 emissions during the COVID-19 forced confinement.  This work is about Government policies during the COVID-19 pandemic have drastically altered patterns of energy demand around the world. Many international borders were closed and populations were confined to their homes, which reduced transport and changed consumption patterns. Here we compile government policies and activity data to estimate the decrease in CO 2 emissions during forced confinements. Daily global CO 2 emissions decreased by–17%(–11 to–25% for±1σ) by early April 2020 compared with the mean 2019 levels, just under half from changes in surface transport. At their peak, emissions in individual countries decreased by–26% on average. The impact on 2020 annual emissions depends on the duration of the confinement, with a low estimate of–4%(–2 to–7%) if prepandemic conditions return by mid-June, and a high estimate of–7%(–3 to–13%) if some restrictions remain worldwide until the end of 2020 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Reducing uncertainties in decadal variability of the global carbon budget with multiple datasets.  This work is about Conventional calculations of the global carbon budget infer the land sink as a residual between emissions, atmospheric accumulation, and the ocean sink. Thus, the land sink accumulates the errors from the other flux terms and bears the largest uncertainty. Here, we present a Bayesian fusion approach that combines multiple observations in different carbon reservoirs to optimize the land (B) and ocean (O) carbon sinks, land use change emissions (L), and indirectly fossil fuel emissions (F) from 1980 to 2014. Compared with the conventional approach, Bayesian optimization decreases the uncertainties in B by 41% and in O by 46%. The L uncertainty decreases by 47%, whereas F uncertainty is marginally improved through the knowledge of natural fluxes. Both ocean and net land uptake (B + L) rates have positive trends of 29 ± 8 and 37 ± 17 Tg C⋅y−2 since 1980, respectively. Our Bayesian fusion of multiple …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: An international effort to quantify regional carbon fluxes.  This work is about The international carbon cycle research community is currently coordinating the largest, most comprehensive assessment it has ever undertaken: the Regional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes (RECCAP; http://www.globalcarbonproject.org/reccap). The objective is to establish the mean carbon balance and change over the period 1990–2009 for all subcontinents and ocean basins. The global coverage will provide, for the first time, opportunities to link regional budgets with the global carbon budget. Regional details on or insights into processes driving fluxes have not, to date, been incorporated into efforts addressing the global carbon budget [Canadell et al., 2007; Le Quéré et al., 2009]. The consistency check between the sum of regional fluxes and the global budget will be a unique measure of the level of confidence there is in scaling carbon budgets up and down.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global and regional drivers of accelerating CO2 emissions.  This work is about CO2 emissions from fossil-fuel burning and industrial processes have been accelerating at a global scale, with their growth rate increasing from 1.1% y−1 for 1990–1999 to >3% y−1 for 2000–2004. The emissions growth rate since 2000 was greater than for the most fossil-fuel intensive of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change emissions scenarios developed in the late 1990s. Global emissions growth since 2000 was driven by a cessation or reversal of earlier declining trends in the energy intensity of gross domestic product (GDP) (energy/GDP) and the carbon intensity of energy (emissions/energy), coupled with continuing increases in population and per-capita GDP. Nearly constant or slightly increasing trends in the carbon intensity of energy have been recently observed in both developed and developing regions. No region is decarbonizing its energy supply. The growth rate in emissions is strongest in …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The future research challenge: the global land project.  This work is about The Global Land Project (GLP) represents the joint, land-based research agenda of two major global change science programmes: (i) the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP), which originally focused mainly on biophysical processes in the Earth System through its Global Change and Terrestrial Ecosystems (GCTE) core project, and (ii) the International Human Dimensions Programme through its core project on Land-Use and Land-Cover Change (LUCC). The focus of the new project includes people, biota, and other natural resources (air, water, and soil). The strategy presented here critically emphasizes changes in the coupled human and environmental system, which is an extension of the ecosystem concept to explicitly include human actions and decision-making. The research planning builds upon the extensive heritage of global change research …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Anthropogenic emission is the main contributor to the rise of atmospheric methane during 1993–2017.  This work is about Atmospheric methane (CH4) concentrations have shown a puzzling resumption in growth since 2007 following a period of stabilization from 2000 to 2006. Multiple hypotheses have been proposed to explain the temporal variations in CH4 growth, and attribute the rise of atmospheric CH4 either to increases in emissions from fossil fuel activities, agriculture and natural wetlands, or to a decrease in the atmospheric chemical sink. Here, we use a comprehensive ensemble of CH4 source estimates and isotopic δ13C-CH4 source signature data to show that the resumption of CH4 growth is most likely due to increased anthropogenic emissions. Our emission scenarios that have the fewest biases with respect to isotopic composition suggest that the agriculture, landfill and waste sectors were responsible for 53 ± 13% of the renewed growth over the period 2007–2017 compared to 2000–2006; industrial fossil fuel …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: An International Carbon Office to assist policy-based science.  This work is about The international political commitment to limit global warming to 2°C urgently requires the stabilisation of radiative forcing from carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere. This can be achieved only with information on the full balance of GHG, including both the natural and the anthropogenic emissions and sinks. The public's support of political efforts to limit global warming hinges on robust and transparent information from the scientific community. Here we argue that the existing institutions that support the science of climate change are not adequate to support the policy needs, particularly for the monitoring and assessment of the earth's biogeochemical cycles. To assist in the stabilisation of GHG, an International Carbon Office (ICO) needs to be created to provide full GHG balance at a regional and global level, and to respond quickly to other needs for information as they emerge …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Estimating cropland carbon mitigation potentials in China affected by three improved cropland practices.  This work is about Agriculture is a large source of carbon emissions. The cropland practices of fertilizer substitution, crop straw and conservation tillage are beneficial and help to rebuild local soil carbon stocks and reduce soil carbon emissions, in addition to reducing the consumption of fertilizers and fossil fuels. These improved cropland practices can directly and indirectly mitigate carbon emissions, benefiting the sustainability of croplands. For these three improved practices, we estimated carbon mitigation potentials in rice, wheat and maize croplands in China. The combined contribution of these practices to carbon mitigation was 38.8 Tg C yr-1, with fertilizer substitution, crop straw return, and conservation tillage contributing 26.6, 3.6 and 8.6 Tg C yr-1, respectively. Rice, wheat and maize croplands had potentials to mitigate 13.4, 11.9 and 15.5 Tg C yr-1, respectively, with the combined direct and indirect potential of 33.8 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Forest ecosystems and environments: scaling up from shoot module to watershed.  This work is about Terrestrial ecosystems are experiencing rapid changes of their structure and function as a result of an ever growing pressure by human demands on natural resources. Over the past decades, forcing by direct and indirect human activities has reached a point that is now rivaling the natural forcing that has shaped the Earth system over millennia. This unprecedented phenomenon has attracted a major investment by the scientific community to detect the impacts, attribute the changes to processes, and explore future trajectories. This scientific information is fundamental to creating the knowledge base that will inform policy development and will allow human societies to mitigate and adapt to these rapid changes.With the goal of developing a novel research agenda in support to the above objectives, the ‘‘Global Change and Terrestrial Ecosystems’’core project (GCTE, Walker et al. 1999; Canadell et al. 2005) was …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The study of ecosystems in the context of global change.  This work is about Global change research requires not only knowledge of how individual species (eg pests) respond to climate and land-use change, but also an understanding of the responses of whole systems to their multiple and interacting drivers. An upscaling from single systems to landscapes and continents is an additional essential component of global change research. In contrast to the well-estab lished research methodology in the ecophysiology of species (see Pearcy et al., 1989), the approaches to studying ecosystems as a whole, and the theory required to identify key parameters that drive the multiple interactions at the ecosystem level, are less developed (see Schulze, 1995a). The available tools become even more limited for the study of responses at geographically broader scales. One of IG B P’s (International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme) products has been the contribution to methodology and theory for extrapola tions from ecosystems to continental scales. Experimental investigations of ecosystems started between i 960 and 1970 with the International Biological Programme (IBP), and the ecosystem-level global change studies of GCTE (Global Change and Terrestrial Ecosystems) have built strongly on that heritage. Global change research has reiterated that ecosystems are difficult to study for several reasons:
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon cycle responses of semi‐arid ecosystems to positive asymmetry in rainfall.  This work is about Recent evidence shows that warm semi‐arid ecosystems are playing a disproportionate role in the interannual variability and greening trend of the global carbon cycle given their mean lower productivity when compared with other biomes (Ahlström et al. 2015 Science, 348, 895). Using multiple observations (land‐atmosphere fluxes, biomass, streamflow and remotely sensed vegetation cover) and two state‐of‐the‐art biospheric models, we show that climate variability and extremes lead to positive or negative responses in the biosphere, depending on vegetation type. We find Australia to be a global hot spot for variability, with semi‐arid ecosystems in that country exhibiting increased carbon uptake due to both asymmetry in the interannual distribution of rainfall (extrinsic forcing), and asymmetry in the response of gross primary production (GPP) to rainfall change (intrinsic response). The latter is attributable to the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Increased global nitrous oxide emissions from streams and rivers in the Anthropocene.  This work is about Emissions of nitrous oxide (N2O) from the world’s river networks constitute a poorly constrained term in the global N2O budget,. This N2O component was previously estimated as indirect emissions from agricultural soils with large uncertainties–. Here, we present an improved model representation of nitrogen and N2O processes of the land–ocean aquatic continuum constrained with an ensemble of 11 data products. The model–data framework provides a quantification for how changes in nitrogen inputs (fertilizer, deposition and manure), climate and atmospheric CO2 concentration, and terrestrial processes have affected the N2O emissions from the world’s streams and rivers during 1900–2016. The results show a fourfold increase of global riverine N2O emissions from 70.4 ± 15.4 Gg N2O-N yr−1 in 1900 to 291.3 ± 58.6 Gg N2O-N yr−1 in 2016, although the N2O emissions started to decline after the early …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Challenges of a changing Earth.  This work is about ConclusionsUnderstanding plant migration and its exact consequences for ecosystem functioning and biodiversity still seems far from reach. Paradoxically, our understanding of local dispersal processes has, during the five years that separated the two workshops, benefited from theoretical and empirical advances motivated by long-distance dispersal issues. Recent findings suggest that landscape structure, rather than dispersal potential, might be the key to understanding past and future migrations.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Greening of the Earth and its drivers.  This work is about Global environmental change is rapidly altering the dynamics of terrestrial vegetation, with consequences for the functioning of the Earth system and provision of ecosystem services 1, 2. Yet how global vegetation is responding to the changing environment is not well established. Here we use three long-term satellite leaf area index (LAI) records and ten global ecosystem models to investigate four key drivers of LAI trends during 1982–2009. We show a persistent and widespread increase of growing season integrated LAI (greening) over 25% to 50% of the global vegetated area, whereas less than 4% of the globe shows decreasing LAI (browning). Factorial simulations with multiple global ecosystem models suggest that CO 2 fertilization effects explain 70% of the observed greening trend, followed by nitrogen deposition (9%), climate change (8%) and land cover change (LCC)(4%). CO 2 fertilization effects explain …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Hydrologic resilience and Amazon productivity.  This work is about The Amazon rainforest is disproportionately important for global carbon storage and biodiversity. The system couples the atmosphere and land, with moist forest that depends on convection to sustain gross primary productivity and growth. Earth system models that estimate future climate and vegetation show little agreement in Amazon simulations. Here we show that biases in internally generated climate, primarily precipitation, explain most of the uncertainty in Earth system model results; models, empirical data and theory converge when precipitation biases are accounted for. Gross primary productivity, above-ground biomass and tree cover align on a hydrological relationship with a breakpoint at ~2000 mm annual precipitation, where the system transitions between water and radiation limitation of evapotranspiration. The breakpoint appears to be fairly stable in the future, suggesting resilience of the Amazon to …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The carbon sink of the world's forests: Trends and causes of change in boreal, temperate, and tropical regions from forest inventories.  This work is about Global modeling studies and atmospheric measurements indicate a significant carbon (C) sink in terrestrial ecosystems over the last several decades, but the size, location, and trend of this sink remain poorly understood. Here we combine forest inventory data from the world’s boreal, temperate and tropical forests to quantify the global forest carbon stock and how these stocks have changed over two time periods, 1990-2000 and 2000-2007. We compare these estimates with modeled estimates of the land sink after accounting for ocean and atmosphere constraints. Excluding tropical deforestation, our inventory-based estimates of the global carbon sequestration in forests indicate a consistent carbon sink in forest biomass and soils: more than 2 PgC yr-1 over the two periods. More than half of this sink is in the tropics. Despite the relative stability of the forest sink, our data suggest important regional differences …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Major Questions in Carbon Cycle Research.  This work is about Despite pressure and progress, greenhouse gas concentrations continue to rise. We will explore major questions and uncertainties in carbon cycle science through the lens of the Global Carbon Project (globalcarbonproject. org). Will forests and the oceans continue to soak up carbon dioxide? Is there evidence for runaway methane loss in the Arctic? Will decarbonization finally outpace global energy growth? Stay tuned.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: We’ve made progress to curb global emissions. But it’sa fraction of what’s needed.  This work is about The global pandemic caused an unprecedented drop in global emissions. But this is likely to rebound as economies start to recover.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The relationship between peak warming and cumulative CO..  This work is about Interactions between the carbon cycle, climate and human societies are subject to several major vulnerabilities, broadly defined as factors contributing to the risk of harm from human-induced climate change. We assess five vulnerabilities:(1) effects of increasing CO on the partition of anthropogenic carbon between atmospheric, land and ocean reservoirs;(2) effects of climate change (quantified by temperature) on CO fluxes;(3) uncertainty in climate sensitivity;(4) non-CO radiative forcing and (5) anthropogenic CO emissions. Our analysis uses a physically based expression for, the peak warming associated with a cumulative anthropogenic CO emission to the time of peak warming. The approximations in this expression are evaluated using a non-linear box model of the carbon-climate system, forced with capped emissions trajectories described by an analytic form satisfying integral and smoothness constraints. The …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The coupling between global water and carbon cycles and its changes in the past 30 years.  This work is about Global warming, caused mainly by rising atmospheric CO 2 concentration, is expected to accelerate the global water cycle and reduce terrestrial uptake of CO 2 (ie gross primary production, GPP). At the same time, rising CO 2 has significant fertilization effects by enhancing terrestrial uptake of CO 2 and by increasing ecosystem water use efficiency (WUE), ie the carbon uptake per unit of water loss (evapotranspiration, E), which in turn may affect the hydrological cycle. Therefore, quantifying the responses of the coupled carbon and water cycles to current global warming and rising atmospheric CO 2 concentration is crucial for predicting future climate changes, water availability, food production and the ability to manage the biosphere for climate mitigation and adaptation. In a recent study, we developed an analytical model to quantify the coupling between global water and carbon cycles. Using a combination of …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The representation of non-equilibrium soil types in earth system models and its impact on carbon cycle projections.  This work is about Soils hold the largest reactive pool of carbon (C) on earth. Global soil organic C stocks (0-200 cm depth plus full peatland depth) are estimated to 2200 Pg C (adapted from Hugelius et al., 2014, Köchy et al., 2015 and Batjes, 2016). Soil C stocks in Earth system models (ESMs) can be generated by running the model over a longer time period until soil C pools are in or near steady-state. Inherent in this concept is the idea that soil C stocks are in (quasi) equilibrium as determined by the balance of net ecosystem input to soil organic matter and its turnover. The rate of turnover is sometimes subdivided into several pools and the rates are affected by various environmental factors. Here we break down the empirically based estimates of global soil C pools into equilibrium-type soils which current (Coupled Model Intercomparison Project, phase 5; CMIP5) generation ESMs are set-up to represent and non-equilibrium type …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Upland Trees Contribute to Exchange of Nitrous Oxide (N2O) in Forest Ecosystems.  This work is about The increase in atmospheric nitrous oxide (N2O) concentration contributes to the acceleration of the greenhouse effect. However, the role of trees in the N2O exchange of forest ecosystems is still an open question. While the soils of temperate and boreal forests were shown to be a natural source of N2O, trees have been so far overlooked in the forest N2O inventories. We determined N2O fluxes in common tree species of boreal and temperate forests: Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris), Norway spruce (Picea abies), downy and silver birch (Betula pubescens, B. pendula), and European beech (Fagus sylvatica). We investigated (1) whether these tree species exchange N2O with the atmosphere under natural field conditions,(2) how the tree N2O fluxes contribute to the forest N2O balance, and (3) whether these fluxes show seasonal dynamics. The studies were performed in a boreal forest (SMEAR II station, Finland; June …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Nitrous Oxide (N2O) Budget: Constraints from Atmospheric Observations and Models.  This work is about The increasing global abundance of N2O poses a threat to human health and society over this coming century through both climate change and ozone depletion. In the sense of greenhouse gases, N2O ranks third behind CO2 and CH4. In the sense of ozone depletion, N2O stands alone. In order to identify the cause of these increases and hopefully reverse them, we need to have a thorough understanding of the sources and sinks (aka the budget) of N2O and how they can be altered. A bottom-up approach to the budget evaluates individual biogeochemical sources of N2O from the land and ocean; whereas, a top-down approach uses atmospheric observations of the variability, combined with modeling of the atmospheric chemistry and transport, to infer the magnitude of sources and sinks throughout the Earth system. This paper reviews top-down approaches using atmospheric data; a similar top-down approach …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Progress toward an Integrated Global Greenhouse Gas Information System (IG3IS).  This work is about Accurate and precise atmospheric long-term measurements of greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations have revealed the rapid and unceasing rise of global GHG concentrations due to human socioeconomic activity. Long-term observations also show a resulting rise in global temperatures and evidence of negative impacts on society. In response to this mounting evidence, nations, sub-national governments, private enterprises and individuals are establishing and accelerating efforts to reduce GHG emissions while meeting the needs for global development and increasing energy access. With this motivation, WMO and its partners have called for an Integrated Global Greenhouse Information System (IG3IS). The IG3IS will serve as an international coordinating mechanism to establish and propagate consistent methods and standards to help assess emission-reduction actions. For the IG3IS initiative to succeed the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The puzzle of renewed growth in atmospheric methane concentrations: engaging with interdisciplinary networks and raising awareness.  This work is about Methane is a greenhouse gas that is emitted from diverse human and natural sources that include fossil-fuel activities, agriculture, wetlands, and fire. Since the industrial revolution, atmospheric concentrations of methane have increased by more than 150% and methane is now the second leading greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide. Given the shorter lifetime of methane in the atmosphere, combined with a more potent radiative forcing than carbon dioxide, and its role in reactive chemistry and tropospheric ozone formation, methane is under intense scrutiny. Despite this, the decadal scale dynamics of the growth of methane in the atmosphere has proven challenging to fully understand. For example, from 1999-2006, methane concentrations remained stable in the atmosphere, but in 2007, the growth of methane rose abruptly and has continued to increase through 2018. Both the period of stabilization and the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The assessment and role of the permafrost carbon feedback in IPCC reports through the AR6.  This work is about We will discuss the changing role of the permafrost carbon feedback in IPCC assessment reports: how it has been quantified, and how has been used to inform policy. In particular, we will discuss how the feedback was handled in and prior to the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5), the Special Report on Oceans and the Cryosphere (SROCC), the Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 ºC (SR1. 5), and the Sixth Assessment Report (AR6), with a focus on the evolution of the use of the permafrost carbon feedback in quantifying remaining carbon budgets for keeping global warming below specified levels.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Vulnerability of Permafrost Carbon Research Coordination Network.  This work is about Approximately 1700 Pg (billion tons) of soil carbon are stored in the northern circumpolar permafrost zone, more than twice as much carbon than currently contained in the atmosphere. Permafrost thaw, and the microbial decomposition of previously frozen organic carbon, is considered one of the most likely positive feedbacks from terrestrial ecosystems to the atmosphere in a warmer world. Yet, the rate and form of release is highly uncertain but crucial for predicting the strength and timing of this carbon cycle feedback this century and beyond. Here we report on the formation of a new research coordination network (RCN) whose objective is to link biological C cycle research with well-developed networks in the physical sciences focused on the thermal state of permafrost. We found that published literature in the Science Citation Index identified with the search terms' permafrost'and'carbon'have increased …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Towards the establishment of the Southeast Asia carbon budget.  This work is about Within the United Nationals Framework Convention on Climate Change, countries are continuing to negotiate emission reduction targets and exploring mitigation strategies best suited to their biophysical characteristics. Under the “REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes”, we focus on analyzing the carbon budget of the Southeast (SE) Asia region. Following the large 1997/98 El Niño event, anomalous CO2 growth rate (~ 2.5 ppm/yr) in the atmosphere is measured. Studies suggest forest and peat fires resulted in a carbon emission rate of 1-2 Pg-C/yr from the SE Asia alone. We plan to combine estimates of carbon fluxes from multiple sources, eg, from atmospheric inverse modeling, ecosystem model simulations, emissions from fire, and land use change based on remote sensing data products, and field observations, to establish the mean annual CO2-C budget for the past 10 years. We will also attempt …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The magnitude, trend and drivers of the global nitrous oxide budget: a new assessment.  This work is about Atmospheric concentration of nitrous oxide (N 2 O), an important greenhouse gas and stratospheric ozone depleting substance, has increased 22% since the pre-industrial era, from 270 to 330 parts per billion (ppb), with the fastest increase since the early 2000s. Although a wide variety of efforts have been made to estimate N 2 O emissions from different sectors, the magnitude and trend of the global N 2 O budget and the underlying controls remain largely uncertain. To establish an improved global N 2 O budget with the capacity to update it at regular intervals, the GCP (Global Carbon Project) in collaboration with INI (International Nitrogen Initiative) initialized a new assessment of global and regional N 2 O budgets in 2016. In the past three years, we have synthesized different sources of nitrous oxide (N 2 O) emission/sink estimates based on Bottom-Up (BU) and Top-Down (TD) approaches, which involves more …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global mapping of crop-specific emission factors highlights hotspots of nitrous oxide mitigation.  This work is about Mitigating soil nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions is essential for staying below a 2 °C warming threshold. However, accurate assessments of mitigation potential are limited by uncertainty and variability in direct emission factors (EFs). To assess where and why EFs differ, we created high-resolution maps of crop-specific EFs based on 1,507 georeferenced field observations. Here, using a data-driven approach, we show that EFs vary by two orders of magnitude over space. At global and regional scales, such variation is primarily driven by climatic and edaphic factors rather than the well-recognized management practices. Combining spatially explicit EFs with N surplus information, we conclude that global mitigation potential without compromising crop production is 30% (95% confidence interval, 17–53%) of direct soil emissions of N2O, equivalent to the entire direct soil emissions of China and the United States …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Regional carbon fluxes from land use and land cover change in Asia, 1980–2009.  This work is about We present a synthesis of the land-atmosphere carbonflux from land use and land cover change (LULCC) in Asia using multiple data sources and paying particular attention to deforestation and forest regrowth fluxes. The data sources are quasi-independent and include the UN Food and Agriculture Organization-Forest Resource Assessment (FAO-FRA 2015; country-level inventory estimates), the Emission Database for Global Atmospheric Research (EDGARv4. 3), the ‘Houghton’bookkeeping model that incorporates FAO-FRA data, an ensemble of 8 state-of-the-art Dynamic Global Vegetation Models (DGVM), and 2 recently published independent studies using primarily remote sensing techniques. The estimates are aggregated spatially to Southeast, East, and South Asia and temporally for three decades, 1980–1989, 1990–1999 and 2000–2009. Since 1980, net carbon emissions from LULCC in Asia were …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Managing forests for climate change mitigation.  This work is about Forests currently absorb billions of tons of CO2 globally every year, an economic subsidy worth hundreds of billions of dollars if an equivalent sink had to be created in other ways. Concerns about the permanency of forest carbon stocks, difficulties in quantifying stock changes, and the threat of environmental and socioeconomic impacts of large-scale reforestation programs have limited the uptake of forestry activities in climate policies. With political will and the involvement of tropical regions, forests can contribute to climate change protection through carbon sequestration as well as offering economic, environmental, and sociocultural benefits. A key opportunity in tropical regions is the reduction of carbon emissions from deforestation and degradation.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The declining uptake rate of atmospheric CO2 by land and ocean sinks.  This work is about Through 1959–2012, an airborne fraction (AF) of 0.44 of total anthropogenic CO2 emissions remained in the atmosphere, with the rest being taken up by land and ocean CO2 sinks. Understanding of this uptake is critical because it greatly alleviates the emissions reductions required for climate mitigation, and also reduces the risks and damages that adaptation has to embrace. An observable quantity that reflects sink properties more directly than the AF is the CO2 sink rate (kS), the combined land–ocean CO2 sink flux per unit excess atmospheric CO2 above preindustrial levels. Here we show from observations that kS declined over 1959–2012 by a factor of about 1 / 3, implying that CO2 sinks increased more slowly than excess CO2. Using a carbon–climate model, we attribute the decline in kS to four mechanisms: slower-than-exponential CO2 emissions growth (~ 35% of the trend), volcanic eruptions (~ 25%), sink responses to climate change (~ 20%), and nonlinear responses to increasing CO2, mainly oceanic (~ 20%). The first of these mechanisms is associated purely with the trajectory of extrinsic forcing, and the last two with intrinsic, feedback responses of sink processes to changes in climate and atmospheric CO2. Our results suggest that the effects of these intrinsic, nonlinear responses are already detectable in the global carbon cycle. Although continuing future decreases in kS will occur under all plausible CO2 emission scenarios, the rate of decline varies between scenarios in non-intuitive ways because extrinsic and intrinsic mechanisms respond in opposite ways to changes in emissions: extrinsic mechanisms cause kS to decline …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Biomass Equations for Quercus ilex L. in the Montseny Massif, Northeastern Spain.  This work is about Biomass estimation equations for individual holm oak (Quercus ilex spp. ilex) were developed using data from 71 sample trees. Diameter alone was a strong predictor of biomass, but better biomass estimates were obtained when height and crown projection radius were added to the model. In addition to total above-ground dry weight, different biomass components were calculated: stem (greater than 5 cm in diameter), branches 1 to 5 cm in diameter, branches less than 1 cm in diameter, and foliage. Grouping the trees according to height (taller or shorter than 7 m) and aspect (north-and south-facing slopes) resulted in significantly different allometric equations for most of the components considered. Improved estimates were achieved in many cases when D50 (diameter at 0.5 m) was used instead of DBH. Comparison of the results with other published equations developed for Q.ilex and other oaks showed …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Anthropogenic CO2 emissions.  This work is about Figure 1| Inferences of FF+ LUC emissions from atmospheric CO2 growth-rate data. The solid black line in both panels shows FF+ LUC emission inventory data2, 8, with indicative uncertainty of one standard deviation (±9%; dashed black line). The upper panel applies the method of Francey et al. 1, comparing the data with estimates from atmospheric concentrations derived by displacing dC/dt− IAV by 5.3 Pg C yr− 1; red and blue lines use dC/dt− IAV from Francey et al. 1 (available for 1990–2011) and from a longer series12, 8, respectively. The lower panel compares emissions data with AF-based estimates from atmospheric concentrations, using the same series for dC/dt− IAV as the upper panel (red and blue lines). Also shown is an emissions estimate derived by adding model-based estimates8 of land and ocean CO2 sinks to observed dC/dt (green line).
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The rapidly changing greenhouse gas budget of Asia.  This work is about Rapid economic growth in many Asian countries has resulted in increased energy demand, which in turn is leading to increasing the global share of greenhouse gas emissions by the region (Raupach et al. 2007; Le Quere et al. 2009). An understanding of the natural carbon exchange over the land and oceans due to tropical climate variability is also required for calculating interannual to interdecadal variations in atmospheric CO2 (Patra et al., 2005).An international workshop was organized through financial supports from (1) the Asia Pacific Network (APN) funded project (ARCP2011-11NMY-Patra/Canadell), the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Geosphere-Biosphere Project (GBP)(ATCTM) at the Physical Research Laboratory (PRL), Ahmedabad. The main aim of this 1 st APN workshop was to assess resources available currently among the international research community working on various aspects of earth system sciences with a focus on South and Southeast Asia. The key issue discussed was the availability of data and models to work towards the establishment of the GHG budget for these two regions based on synthesis and reconciliation of top-down (atmospheric observations and inverse models) and bottom up estimates (ground based flux observations and terrestrial models). These included atmospheric measurements of GHGs, classifications of land cover and soil properties, coastal ocean biogeochemistry, forest and agriculture inventories, and remote sensing based estimates. The target GHGs are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxides (N2O).
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Ecosystem collapse and climate change.  This work is about Concerns about climate-related “collapse” of ecosystems are increasing, including the potential irreversible loss of habitats and species. California’s record fire year of 2020 and high-intensity fires caused unusual mortality among giant sequoias (Sequoiadendron giganteum), raising questions about the preservation of these ancient organisms. Likewise, diverse and unconnected terrestrial and marine ecosystems in Australia experienced simultaneous and abrupt collapse in response to the strong El Niño in 2015–2016, on top of long-term warming trends. Those changes triggered the question as to whether we were seeing predicted future climate impacts now with the rapid transformation and loss of ecosystems as we know them.In this volume, we, and the contributing authors, document cases of ecosystem collapse around the world. In each case, the authors believe that climate change is playing a dominant or …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global carbon project: linking the biophysical and human components of the carbon cycle.  This work is about The dynamics of the global carbon cycle have been driven by an increasingly complex array of drivers and controls over time. Before major human intervention, the carbon cycle was driven by climate variability and the internal dynamics of the linked land-ocean-atmosphere system (Figure 1). However, from about 200 years ago, industrialisation and accelerating land-use change increased the complexity of the carbon cycle by adding a new stock–fossil fuel. Although society was aware of the changes, it has not been until the last two decades that humans have begun to realise that changes in climate change and variability (through changes in the carbon cycle and other greenhouse gases) may significantly affect their welfare as well as the functioning of the Earth System. Now the development and implementation of institutions and regimes to manage the global carbon cycle adds a new set of feedbacks in the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Iconic CO2 time series at risk.  This work is about Many scien sts and engineers contribute valuable me away from the established career paths of research, teaching, and publishing to foster ac vi es and develop programs that both address key science ques ons and build important societal links. AAAS seeks to recognize an individual or a limited number of individuals working together in the scien c or engineering community for making an outstanding contribu on to furthering science diplomacy.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Climate change increases the risk of wildfires.  This work is about Human-induced climate change promotes the conditions on which wildfires depend, enhancing their likelihood and challenging suppression efforts. Human-induced warming has already led to a global increase in the frequency and severity of fire weather, increasing the risks of wildfire. This signal has emerged from natural variability in many regions, including the western US and Canada, southern Europe, Scandinavia and Amazonia. Human-induced warming is also increasing fire risks in other regions, including Siberia and Australia. Nonetheless, wildfire activity is determined by a range of other factors including land management and ignition sources, and on the global-scale most datasets indicate a reduction in burned area in recent years, chiefly due to clearing of natural land for agriculture.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Structure and dynamics of the root system.  This work is about The belowground component of terrestrial ecosystems is much less understood than any of the aboveground components, yet important ecosystem processes such as nutrient recycling, water storage, and long-term carbon accumulation occur largely in this compartment. For instance, belowground structures accounted for up to 83% of the total biomass in 13 Mediterranean woody communities (Hilbert and Canadell 1995), and belowground primary production was 60–80% of the total net primary production in a variety of woody systems (Coleman 1976; Ågren et al. 1980; Fogel 1985). Yet both root biomass and production are infrequently studied and technical difficulties make the measurements often inaccurate. Furthermore, plant root distribution and maximum rooting depths play important roles in overall ecosystem function, but it was not until recently that ecosystem-level and global comprehensive …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Moving toward net-zero emissions requires new alliances for carbon dioxide removal.  This work is about The 1.5°C target will require removing at least some of the carbon dioxide (CO2) previously emitted. Knowledge on how this can be done has been increasing, though barriers remain concerning governance, policy, and acceptability. For the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP26) to move beyond an academic debate on CO2 removal (CDR), a broader alliance of research and policy communities, industry, and the public is needed.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: State of the science in reconciling top‐down and bottom‐up approaches for terrestrial CO2 budget.  This work is about Robust estimates of CO2 budget, CO2 exchanged between the atmosphere and terrestrial biosphere, are necessary to better understand the role of the terrestrial biosphere in mitigating anthropogenic CO2 emissions. Over the past decade, this field of research has advanced through understanding of the differences and similarities of two fundamentally different approaches: “top‐down” atmospheric inversions and “bottom‐up” biosphere models. Since the first studies were undertaken, these approaches have shown an increasing level of agreement, but disagreements in some regions still persist, in part because they do not estimate the same quantity of atmosphere–biosphere CO2 exchange. Here, we conducted a thorough comparison of CO2 budgets at multiple scales and from multiple methods to assess the current state of the science in estimating CO2 budgets. Our set of atmospheric inversions and biosphere …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Vulnerability of permafrost carbon to climate change: Implications for the global carbon cycle.  This work is about Thawing permafrost and the resulting microbial decomposition of previously frozen organic carbon (C) is one of the most significant potential feedbacks from terrestrial ecosystems to the atmosphere in a changing climate. In this article we present an overview of the global permafrost C pool and of the processes that might transfer this C into the atmosphere, as well as the associated ecosystem changes that occur with thawing. We show that accounting for C stored deep in the permafrost more than doubles previous high-latitude inventory estimates, with this new estimate equivalent to twice the atmospheric C pool. The thawing of permafrost with warming occurs both gradually and catastrophically, exposing organic C to microbial decomposition. Other aspects of ecosystem dynamics can be altered by climate change along with thawing permafrost, such as growing season length, plant growth rates and species …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: GEO carbon strategy.  This work is about Recognizing the growing need for improved Earth observations, over 130 governments and leading international organizations are collaborating through the Group on Earth Observations (GEO) to establish a Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) by the year 2015. They are contributing their respective Earth monitoring systems to GEOSS and interlinking these systems so that they work together better. They are developing common technical standards to make it possible to pool information, and they are promoting the free sharing and dissemination of Earth observations and data. This expanding coalition of countries and organizations has already transformed the ability of governments to manage natural resources and promote the safety and well-being of their citizens.GEO plans to produce globally harmonized data sets on global, national and local scales, using common algorithms, variables and units; as well as, to develop an integrated model that stitches all carbon observations together. The IGOS-P, through their leadership and implementation plans have now been fully integrated into GEO and are the foundation for the Communities of Practice. The new GEO Carbon Community of Practice will implement a plan for an Integrated Carbon Observation program.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Current and future CO2 emissions from drained peatlands in Southeast Asia.  This work is about Forested tropical peatlands in Southeast Asia store at least 42 000 Million metric tonnes (Mt) of soil carbon. Human activity and climate change threatens the stability of this large pool, which has been decreasing rapidly over the last few decades owing to deforestation, drainage and fire. In this paper we estimate the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions resulting from drainage of lowland tropical peatland for agricultural and forestry development which dominates the perturbation of the carbon balance in the region. Present and future emissions from drained peatlands are quantified using data on peatland extent and peat thickness, present and projected land use, water management practices and decomposition rates. Of the 27.1 Million hectares (Mha) of peatland in Southeast Asia, 12.9 Mha had been deforested and mostly drained by 2006. This latter area is increasing rapidly because of increasing land development pressures. Carbon dioxide (CO2) emission caused by decomposition of drained peatlands was between 355 Mt y−1 and 855 Mt y−1 in 2006 of which 82% came from Indonesia, largely Sumatra and Kalimantan. At a global scale, CO2 emission from peatland drainage in Southeast Asia is contributing the equivalent of 1.3% to 3.1% of current global CO2 emissions from the combustion of fossil fuel. If current peatland development and management practices continue, these emissions are predicted to continue for decades. This warrants inclusion of tropical peatland CO2 emissions in global greenhouse gas emission calculations and climate mitigation policies. Uncertainties in emission calculations are discussed and research needs for …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Vulnerability of permafrost carbon research coordination network.  This work is about Approximately 1700 Pg of soil carbon are stored in the northern circumpolar permafrost zone, more than twice as much carbon than currently contained in the atmosphere. Permafrost thaw, and the microbial decomposition of previously frozen organic carbon, is considered one of the most likely positive feedbacks from terrestrial ecosystems to the atmosphere in a warmer world. Yet, the rate and form of release is highly uncertain but crucial for predicting the strength and timing of this carbon cycle feedback this century and beyond. Here we report on the first products of a new research coordination network (RCN) whose objective is to link biological C cycle research with well-developed networks in the physical sciences focused on the thermal state of permafrost. We found that published literature in the Science Citation Index identified with the search terms' permafrost'and'carbon'have increased dramatically in the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: RESERCH ARTICLE EARTH SCIENCES.  This work is about Atmospheric methane (CH4) concentrations have shown a puzzling resumption of growth since 2007 following a period of stabilization from 2000 to 2006. Multiple hypotheses have been proposed to explain the temporal variations in CH4 growth, which attributes the rise of atmospheric CH4 either to increases in emissions from fossil fuel activities, agriculture, and natural wetlands or to a decrease in the atmospheric chemical sink. Here, we use a comprehensive ensemble of CH4 source estimates and isotopic δ13C-CH4 source signature data to show that the resumption of CH4 growth is most likely due to increased anthropogenic emissions. Our emission scenarios that have the fewest biases with respect to isotopic composition suggest that the agriculture, landfill, and waste sectors were responsible for 53±13% of the renewed growth over the period 2007-2017 compared to 2000-2006; industrial fossil fuel sources explained an additional 34±24%, and wetland sources contributed the least at 13±9%. The hypothesis that a large increase in emissions from natural wetlands drove the decrease in atmospheric δ13C-CH4 values cannot be reconciled with current process-based wetland CH4 models. This finding suggests the need for increased wetland measurements to better constrain the contemporary and future role of wetlands in the rise of atmospheric methane and climate feedbacks. Our findings highlight the predominant role of anthropogenic activities in driving the growth of atmospheric CH4 concentrations.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global cropland-N2O emission dataset.  This work is about Croplands are the single largest anthropogenic source of nitrous oxide (N 2 O) globally, yet their estimates remain difficult to verify when using Tier 1 and 3 methods of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Here, we re-evaluate global cropland-N 2 O emissions in 1961-2014, using N-rate-dependent emission factors (EF) upscaled from 1,206 field observations in 180 global distributed sites and high-resolution N inputs disaggregated from sub-national surveys covering 15,593 administrative units. Our results confirm IPCC Tier 1 default EF for upland crops in 1990-2014, but give a~ 15% lower EF in 1961-1989 and a~ 67% larger EF for paddy rice over the full period. Associated emissions (0.82±0.34 Tg N yr-1) are probably one quarter lower than IPCC Tier 1 global inventories but close to Tier 3 estimates. The use of survey-based gridded N input data contributes 58% of this emission reduction, the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global carbon budget and its operationalization.  This work is about The presentation will cover two components: 1) the latest global carbon budget and 2) the requirements to operationalize its annual update and trend reanalysis to enhance policy relevance and scientific understanding of the current carbon cycle perturbation. First, we will present the new update of the global carbon-CO2 budget covering 1958-2009, including an analysis of the impact of the global financial crisis, new estimates on the emissions from land use change, and ensemble model results on the strength and dynamics of the ocean and land sinks. Second, we will discuss the requirements to make these annual updates a routing operation and to become more regionally explicit, in addition to the extension of the budget to include CH4-carbon.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Multiple Observation Types Jointly Constrain Australian Terrestrial Carbon and Water Cycles.  This work is about Information about the carbon cycle potentially constrains the water cycle, and vice versa. This paper explores the utility of multiple observation sets to constrain carbon and water fluxes and stores in a land surface model, and a resulting determination of the Australian terrestrial carbon budget. Observations include streamflow from 416 gauged catchments, measurements of evapotranspiration (ET) and net ecosystem production (NEP) from 12 eddy-flux sites, litterfall data, and data on carbon pools. The model is a version of CABLE (the Community Atmosphere-Biosphere-Land Exchange model), coupled with CASAcnp (a biogeochemical model) and SLI (Soil-Litter-Iso, a soil hydrology model including liquid and vapour water fluxes and the effects of litter). By projecting observation-prediction residuals onto model uncertainty, we find that eddy flux measurements provide a significantly tighter constraint on Australian …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Linking variability to trends and functioning.  This work is about Long term ecosystem changes are difficult to predict and measure. Responses to shorter term environmental variations are easier to quantify and may be linked to spatial variations to further our understanding on long term changes and responses. Here we focus on tropical ecosystems, using empirical datasets and various models to understand how tropical ecosystems, from semi-arid shrub lands to moist forests, may respond to future environmental changes. Key patterns in terms of interannual variations and spatial variations in empirical datasets are isolated and compared to ecosystem models. The models, which generally agree well in terms of responses to environmental drivers, are then used to extrapolate observed patterns downstream through the carbon cycle or in time. This way we assess the patterns where data and models agree, allowing us to constrain future changes while identifying key …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Enhanced terrestrial carbon uptake linked to a recent pause in the growth rate of atmospheric CO2.  This work is about The terrestrial carbon sink is increasing, yet the mechanisms responsible for its long-term enhancement, and implications for the growth rate of atmospheric CO2, remain unclear. Here, using global carbon budget estimates, ground, atmospheric and satellite observations, and multiple process-based global vegetation models, we examine the causes and consequences of the enhancement of the terrestrial carbon sink. We show that over the past century the enhanced sink is largely due to the effect of elevated CO2 on photosynthesis dominating over warming induced increases in respiration. The slowdown in global warming since the start of the 21st century is shown to have increased the sink, leading to a pause in the growth rate of atmospheric CO2, and providing further evidence of the relative roles of CO2 fertilization and warming induced respiration. The effect of enhanced terrestrial carbon uptake on the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Global Nitrous Oxide Budget: A joint new activity of GCP and INI.  This work is about Nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions and atmospheric concentrations have been steadily growing for decades, yet large uncertainties remain on the magnitude, sources and controlling factors of emissions. The Global Carbon Project (GCP) and International Nitrogen Initiative (INI), recognizing the increasing role of nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions in the human perturbation of the climate system and ozone depletion, agree to collaborate in a research effort to establish, improve, and update regularly the global N2O budget. The GCP has a well established reputation working on the global carbon budget (http://www. globalcarbonproject. org/carbonbudget) and global methane budget (http://www. globalcarbonproject. org/methanebudget). The INI is the only project that coordinates scientific and best practices in fertilizer use with a well-established global network of contributors and links to major stakeholders. Together, the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Nitrous oxide emissions from grassland ecosystems: Magnitude, spatio-temporal pattern and attribution.  This work is about Manure/fertilizer nitrogen (N) application and N deposited by livestock play an important role in nitrous oxide (N2O) emission from agricultural systems, but relatively little attention has been given to understanding the response of N2O emissions to grassland management at the global scale, including those from manure. In this study, we parameterized and calibrated the global land ecosystem model (The Dynamic Land Ecosystem model; DLEM) to simulate the spatio-temporal variations in N2O emissions from both intensively managed and extensively managed grasslands during 1961-2014. In addition, we attributed total N2O emissions from grassland ecosystems to different sources including manure/mineral fertilizer N application, manure N deposition and climate change. The DLEM simulations with multiple environmental changes and nitrogen input in the form of manure deposition and manure/fertilizer …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon cycle sustainability and land use.  This work is about External link to download this item: http://www. cambridge. org/us/academic/subjects/earth-and-environmental-science/climatology-and-climate-change/land-use-and-carbon-cycle-advances-integrated-science-management-and-policy
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Nitrous oxide emission from North America based on bottom-up and top-down approaches: trends, drivers, and comparison.  This work is about Nitrous oxide (N 2 O) is the third-most-important long-lived greenhouse gases and its atmospheric concentration has increased by~ 22% compared to the level in the preindustrial era. Anthropogenic activities, especially nitrogen addition to agricultural soils, are the major sources excess N 2 O to the atmosphere. Here, we synthesize the North American N 2 O emissions based on bottom-up (BU: Terrestrial Biosphere Models, emission inventories, and statistical models) and top-down (TD: three inversion frameworks) approaches over the period of 1980-2016. The regional land N 2 O emissions estimated by BU is~ 1.6 (0.9-2.6) Tg N 2 ON yr-1, which is~ 0.2 Tg N 2 ON yr-1 higher than that by TD with a much smaller uncertainty range (1.1-1.5 Tg N 2 ON yr-1) over 2007-2016. Natural soil emission (~ 0.6 Tg N 2 ON yr-1) averagely accounts for 37% of regional total amount and shows no changing trend. Compared to …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Attributing the increase of atmospheric CO2 to emitters and absorbers.  This work is about Climate change mitigation strategies involve reductions of greenhouse gases emissions, chiefly CO2. Current international negotiations are exploring the feasibility of new accounting rules, especially when dealing with land-atmosphere fluxes. Here we attempt to attribute the increase in the atmospheric CO2 burden to regional emissions from fossil fuel and land-use change, and removal by regional land sinks and the ocean. Through its regional approach, this study extends the ‘Brazilian Proposal’, which proposed to assign national emission targets based on each country's historical responsibility for the anthropogenic greenhouse effect. A carbon-cycle box model is used to attribute the increase of CO2 above pre-industrial levels to four emitting and absorbing regions, namely “OECD”,“Former Soviet Union”,“Africa and Latin America”, and “Asia and Oceania”. The model includes prescribed fossil-fuel and cement …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global carbon budget 1959-2011.  This work is about The Global Carbon and Methane Budgets are a collaborative effort of the global carbon cycle science community coordinated by the Global Carbon Project.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Global Methane Cycle II Posters.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global methane budget 2000–2012.  This work is about The global methane (CH4) budget is becoming an increasingly important component for managing realistic pathways to mitigate climate change. This relevance, due to a shorter atmospheric lifetime and a stronger warming potential than carbon dioxide, is challenged by the still unexplained changes of atmospheric CH4 over the past decade. Emissions and concentrations of CH4 are continuing to increase, making CH4 the second most important human-induced greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide. Two major difficulties in reducing uncertainties come from the large variety of diffusive CH4 sources that overlap geographically, and from the destruction of CH4 by the very short-lived hydroxyl radical (OH). To address these difficulties, we have established a consortium of multi-disciplinary scientists under the umbrella of the Global Carbon Project to synthesize and stimulate research on the methane cycle, and producing regular (∼ biennial) updates of the global methane budget. This consortium includes atmospheric physicists and chemists, biogeochemists of surface and marine emissions, and socio-economists who study anthropogenic emissions. Following Kirschke et al. (2013), we propose here the first version of a living review paper that integrates results of top-down studies (exploiting atmospheric observations within an atmospheric inverse-modelling framework) and bottom-up models, inventories and data-driven approaches (including process-based models for estimating land surface emissions and atmospheric chemistry, and inventories for anthropogenic emissions, data-driven extrapolations). For the 2003–2012 decade, global …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Recent patterns and mechanisms of carbon exchange by terrestrial ecosystems.  This work is about Knowledge of carbon exchange between the atmosphere, land and the oceans is important, given that the terrestrial and marine environments are currently absorbing about half of the carbon dioxide that is emitted by fossil-fuel combustion. This carbon uptake is therefore limiting the extent of atmospheric and climatic change, but its long-term nature remains uncertain. Here we provide an overview of the current state of knowledge of global and regional patterns of carbon exchange by terrestrial ecosystems. Atmospheric carbon dioxide and oxygen data confirm that the terrestrial biosphere was largely neutral with respect to net carbon exchange during the 1980s, but became a net carbon sink in the 1990s. This recent sink can be largely attributed to northern extratropical areas, and is roughly split between North America and Eurasia. Tropical land areas, however, were approximately in balance with respect to …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Earth system: biological and ecological dimensions of global environmental change.  This work is about CSIRO Research Publications Repository - The Earth System : Biological and Ecological Dimensions of Global Environmental Change Skip to Main Content CSIRO Home Research Publications Repository Contact Us Help CSIRO Login Username Password Search Publications Advanced Search Browse Publications Selected Records () The Earth System : Biological and Ecological Dimensions of Global Environmental Change Description Select | OK Print Author: Mooney, HA; Canadell, Josep Date of Publication: 2002 Publication Type: Book Chapter Book Title: The Earth System : Biological and Ecological Dimensions of Global Environmental Change Publisher: Wiley Place of Publication: New York Keywords: CSIRO Sustainable Ecosystems; climate change/ecosystems Series Title & No: Encyclopedia of Global Environmental Change Series Volume Id: 2 ISSN/ISBN: 0471977969 Identifier: procite:2e32c469-0152…
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The terrestrial carbon budget of South and Southeast Asia.  This work is about Accomplishing the objective of the current climate policies will require establishing carbon budget and flux estimates in each region and county of the globe by comparing and reconciling multiple estimates including the observations and the results of top-down atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO 2) inversions and bottom-up dynamic global vegetation models. With this in view, this study synthesizes the carbon source/sink due to net ecosystem productivity (NEP), land cover land use change (E LUC), fires and fossil burning (E FIRE) for the South Asia (SA), Southeast Asia (SEA) and South and Southeast Asia (SSEA= SA+ SEA) and each country in these regions using the multiple top-down and bottom-up modeling results. The terrestrial net biome productivity (NBP= NEP–E LUC–E FIRE) calculated based on bottom-up models in combination with E FIRE based on GFED4s data show net carbon sinks of 217±147, 10 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: IGBP/GCTE terrestrial transects: Dynamics of terrestrial ecosystems under environmental change–Introduction.  This work is about The realization that human-induced environmental changes often have impacts at continental and global scales has prompted the development of new ways to address large-scale and complex research problems. These new research approaches need to deal with an unprecedented level of integration and coordination of multiple disciplines and data streams generated by different scientific communities, institutions and countries (Canadell et al. 2000).In the early 1990s, the Global Change and Terrestrial Ecosystems (GCTE) project of the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP) developed the approach of terrestrial transects for global change research as a way to address large spatial phenomena with both regional and global implications (Steffen et al. 1992; Koch et al. 1995; Steffen et al. 1999). The IGBP Terrestrial Transects were established in critical regions of the world in order to cover most …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Opportunities and challenges in using remaining carbon budgets to guide climate policy.  This work is about The remaining carbon budget represents the total amount of CO2 that can still be emitted in the future while limiting global warming to a given temperature target. Remaining carbon budget estimates range widely, however, and this uncertainty can be used to either trivialize the most ambitious mitigation targets by characterizing them as impossible, or to argue that there is ample time to allow for a gradual transition to a low-carbon economy. Neither of these extremes is consistent with our best understanding of the policy implications of remaining carbon budgets. Understanding the scientific and socio-economic uncertainties affecting the size of the remaining carbon budgets, as well as the methodological choices and assumptions that underlie their calculation, is essential before applying them as a policy tool. Here we provide recommendations on how to calculate remaining carbon budgets in a traceable and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon budget 2014, Earth Syst. Sci. Data, 7, 47–85.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: ESG.  This work is about The author wishes to thank the reviewers for their comments. Any remaining errors are the sole responsibility of the author. As the researcher has worked independently, the views and conclusions expressed in this paper do not necessarily reflect those of the Board of Directors of the Fraser Institute, the staff, or supporters.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A 130‐year global inventory of methane emissions from livestock: Trends, patterns, and drivers.  This work is about Livestock contributes approximately one‐third of global anthropogenic methane (CH4) emissions. Quantifying the spatial and temporal variations of these emissions is crucial for climate change mitigation. Although country‐level information is reported regularly through national inventories and global databases, spatially explicit quantification of century‐long dynamics of CH4 emissions from livestock has been poorly investigated. Using the Tier 2 method adopted from the 2019 Refinement to 2006 IPCC guidelines, we estimated CH4 emissions from global livestock at a spatial resolution of 0.083° (~9 km at the equator) during the period 1890–2019. We find that global CH4 emissions from livestock increased from 31.8 [26.5–37.1] (mean [minimum−maximum of 95% confidence interval) Tg CH4 yr−1 in 1890 to 131.7 [109.6–153.7] Tg CH4 yr−1 in 2019, a fourfold increase in the past 130 years. The growth in global …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Global Carbon Budget and the Role of Forests and Peatlands.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes (RECCAP), Biogeosciences.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Recent carbon trends and the global carbon budget.  This work is about Recent Carbon Trends and the Global Carbon Budget Page 1 Recent Carbon Trends and the Global Carbon Budget updated to 2006 GCP-Global Carbon Budget team: Pep Canadell, Philippe Ciais, Thomas Conway, Chris Field, Corinne Le Quéré, Skee Houghton, Gregg Marland, Mike Raupach, Erik Buitenhuis, Nathan Gillett Last update: 13 June 2008 Page 2 Outline 1. Recent global carbon trends (2000-2006) 2. The perturbation of the global carbon budget (1850-2006) 3. The declining efficiency of natural CO 2 sinks 4. Attribution of the recent acceleration of atmospheric CO 2 5. Conclusions and implications for climate change Page 3 1. Recent global carbon trends Page 4 FAO-Global Resources Assessment 2005; Canadell et al. 2007, PNAS Tropical Americas 0.6 Pg C y-1 Tropical Asia 0.6 Pg C y-1 Tropical Africa 0.3 Pg C y-1 2000-2005 Tropical deforestation 13 Million hectares each year Anthropogenic C …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Methane from food production might be the next wildcard in climate change.  This work is about Methane concentrations in the atmosphere are growing at a faster rate than any time in the past 20 years, likely driven to large extent by food production, according to the Global Methane Budget released today. Methane is currently contributing less to global warming than carbon dioxide (CO₂), but it is a very powerful greenhouse gas.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global Change and Terrestrial Ecosystems Implementation Plan.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Urban infrastructure choices structure climate solutions.  This work is about Cities are becoming increasingly important in combatting climate change, but their overall role in global solution pathways remains unclear. Here we suggest structuring urban climate solutions along the use of existing and newly built infrastructures, providing estimates of the mitigation potential.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon budget 2022.  This work is about Accurate assessment of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere in a changing climate is critical to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the development of climate policies, and project future climate change. Here we describe and synthesise data sets and methodology to quantify the five major components of the global carbon budget and their uncertainties. Fossil CO2 emissions (EFOS) are based on energy statistics and cement production data, while emissions from land-use change (ELUC), mainly deforestation, are based on land-use and land-use change data and bookkeeping models. Atmospheric CO2 concentration is measured directly, and its growth rate (GATM) is computed from the annual changes in concentration. The ocean CO2 sink (SOCEAN) is estimated with global ocean biogeochemistry models and observation-based data-products. The terrestrial CO2 sink (SLAND) is estimated with dynamic global vegetation models. The resulting carbon budget imbalance (BIM), the difference between the estimated total emissions and the estimated changes in the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere, is a measure of imperfect data and understanding of the contemporary carbon cycle. All uncertainties are reported as ±1σ. For the year 2021, EFOS increased by 5.1 % relative to 2020, with fossil emissions at 10.1 ± 0.5 GtC yr-1 (9.9 ± 0.5 GtC yr-1 when the cement carbonation sink is included), ELUC was 1.1 ± 0.7 GtC yr-1, for a total anthropogenic CO2 emission of 11.1 ± 0.8 GtC yr-1 (40.8 ± 2.9 GtCO2). Also, for 2021, GATM was 5.2 …Accurate assessment of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere in a changing climate is critical to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the development of climate policies, and project future climate change. Here we describe and synthesise data sets and methodology to quantify the five major components of the global carbon budget and their uncertainties. Fossil CO2 emissions (EFOS) are based on energy statistics and cement production data, while emissions from land-use change (ELUC), mainly deforestation, are based on land-use and land-use change data and bookkeeping models. Atmospheric CO2 concentration is measured directly, and its growth rate (GATM) is computed from the annual changes in concentration. The ocean CO2 sink (SOCEAN) is estimated with global ocean biogeochemistry models and observation-based data-products. The terrestrial CO2 sink (SLAND) is estimated with dynamic global vegetation models. The resulting carbon budget imbalance (BIM), the difference between the estimated total emissions and the estimated changes in the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere, is a measure of imperfect data and understanding of the contemporary carbon cycle. All uncertainties are reported as ±1σ.For the year 2021, EFOS increased by 5.1 % relative to 2020, with fossil emissions at 10.1 ± 0.5 GtC yr-1 (9.9 ± 0.5 GtC yr-1 when the cement carbonation sink is included), ELUC was 1.1 ± 0.7 GtC yr-1, for a total anthropogenic CO2 emission of 11.1 ± 0.8 GtC yr-1 (40.8 ± 2.9 GtCO2). Also, for 2021, GATM was 5.2 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: JM, Vollmer, MK, and Wang, RHJ: The shared socioeconomic pathway (SSP) greenhouse gas concentrations and their extensions to 2500, Geosci. Model Dev., 13, 3571–3605.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Lignotuber reserves support regrowth following clipping of two Mediterranean shrubs.  This work is about 1. We investigated whether reserves stored in the lignotubers of two Mediterranean shrubs, Arbutus unedo and Erica arborea, were significantly mobilized to support the demands of regrowth and respiration after clipping the tops at different frequencies. 2. After a single clipping, Arbutus showed a 29% decrease of phosphorus concentration by the end of the first growing season. Two years after recovery from clipping, the starch levels remained lower than those of unclipped plants. Similarly, Erica showed depletion of starch, but no nutrient reserves were depleted significantly. 3. Regrowth after multiple clippings mobilized a large fraction of the starch and nutrients stored in the lignotuber. Mean starch concentrations were depleted by 87–93% after multiple clippings and concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and magnesium were depleted by 10–45%, 27–41%, 19–39% and 23–31%, respectively. 4 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Supplementary Information for.  This work is about BAC constructs.(a) BLAST of the end sequences against zebrafish Zv7 genome assembly revealed that the insert contains 154 kb upstream of the transcription start site and terminates within intron 7 of the th gene (Chromosome 25, Ensembl 2006).(b) To determine if the BAC chosen for modification carried th or the paralogous th2 gene, PCR primers were designed for th (orange arrows) and th2 (blue and green arrows). B1 and B2 were independent clones of the same BAC. Positive and negative control templates were genomic DNA and water respectively. The BAC used in our analysis gave a PCR product with th primers only.(c) To generate th: rasGFPsv (shuttle vector), an approximately 1 kb fragment of th promoter (th A-Box) and the Ras membrane anchor tagged mGFP were cloned into the shuttle vector pLD53. SCA-EB, which was subsequently used in the recombination process. Resultant clones were screened using the combinations of primers shown as blue and red arrows (left panel). A second recombination step was not carried out to remove the shuttle vector backbone. Correct clones were further identified by long-range PCR based on combinations of primers 1-3 which revealed six correct clones, of which one was used for data generation (right panel).(d) To reduce possible influences of vector sequences, we engineered th: rasGFPvf (vector-free) using the BAC recombineering strategy by Warming et al. 58. Following the isolation of modified BAC clones from Gal counter selection plates, PCR amplification and sequencing across the respective homology arms were performed to verify the orientation of the transgene (upper panel …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Almacenamiento de carbono y conservaci¢ n de biodiversidad por medio de actividades forestales en el Area de Conservaci¢ n Cordillera Volc nica Central, Costa Rica: potencialidades limitantes.  This work is about Descriptores_Es: AGRICULTURA; AGROECOSISTEMAS; AGROFORESTERIA; ALTURA; ALUMINIO; BALANCE HIDRICO; BIOMASA; CALCIO; CERCA VIVA; CICLO BIOGEOQUIMICO; CICLO DEL NITROGENO; CICLO HIDROLOGICO; CIENCIA DEL SUELO; COMPETENCIA BIOLOGICA; CORDIA ALLIODORA; CULTIVO MIGRATORIO; CULTIVOS TROPICALES; DIAMETRO A LA ALTURA DE PECHO; ECOSISTEMA; ELEMENTOS METALICOS; ERYTHRINA POEPPIGIANA; EVAPOTRANSPIRACION; FOSFORO; HOJARASCA; HUERTOS FAMILIARES; LIXIVIACION; MAGNESIO; MATERIA ORGANICA; MINERALIZACION; MODELOS; MOVIMIENTO DEL AGUA EN EL SUELO; NECESIDADES DE LAS PLANTAS; NITROGENO; PLANTACION FORESTAL; POTASIO; RECURSOS NATURALES; ROMPEVIENTO; SISTEMAS DE CULTIVO; SISTEMAS DE EXPLOTACION; SOMBRA; SOSTENIBILIDAD; SUELO; TRASLOCACIONDescriptores_In: AGRICULTURE; AGROECOSYSTEMS; AGROFORESTRY; ALUMINIUM; BIOLOGICAL COMPETITION; BIOMASS; BREAST HEIGHT DIAMETER; CALCIUM; CORDIA ALLIODORA; CROPPING SYSTEMS; CYCLING; DOMESTIC GARDENS; ECOSYSTEMS; ERYTHRINA POEPPIGIANA; EVAPOTRANSPIRATION; FARMING SYSTEMS; FOREST PLANTATIONS; HEDGES; HEIGHT; HYDROLOGICAL CYCLE; LEACHING; MAGNESIUM; METALLIC ELEMENTS; MINERALIZATION; MODELS; NATURAL RESOURCES; NITROGEN; NITROGEN CYCLE; ORGANIC MATTER; PHOSPHORUS; PLANT LITTER; PLANT REQUIREMENTS; POTASSIUM; SHADE; SHIFTING CULTIVATION; SOIL; SOIL SCIENCES; SOIL …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Primary forests as indicators of global change and land use effects on carbon storage and greening trends.  This work is about Please use the buttons below to download the presentation materials or to visit the external website where the presentation is linked. Regarding the external link, please note that Copernicus Meetings cannot accept any liability for the content and the website you will visit.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Record rains made Australia a giant green global carbon sink.  This work is about Record-breaking rains triggered so much new growth across Australia that the continent turned into a giant green carbon sink to rival tropical rainforests including the Amazon, our new research shows.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Bottom-up approaches for estimating terrestrial GHG budgets: Bookkeeping, process-based modeling, and data-driven methods.  This work is about This chapter introduces greenhouse gas accounting activities that use “bottom-up” approaches. Bottom-up approaches can be categorized into inventory, bookkeeping, process-based modeling, and data-driven (i.e., remote sensing) methods. Activity data combined with emission factors, gain-loss, or stock-change analyses are the basis of each approach used to carry out the reporting and accounting. Uncertainties stem from data sources, model parameters, type of forcing, reporting level, and uncertainties between methods relate to definitions inherent to reporting requirements by the IPCC and UNFCCC.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Highlights and Key Messages from the International Conference on Negative CO2 Emissions.  This work is about Negative CO2 emissions technologies include a number of technologies and biospheric storage options, the objective of which is the removal of atmospheric CO2 and thus the limitation of future global warming. An international conference on negative emissions technologies was conceived to meet the need for a broader understanding of the possibilities and challenges facing these technologies. The International Conference on Negative CO2 Emissions was held in May 22-24, 2018, at Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden. The conference was organized by Chalmers with support from the Global Carbon Project, the City of Gothenburg, Nordic Energy Research, ECOERA, the Center for Carbon Removal, Göteborg Energi, Stockholm Exergi, and the International Energy Agency, ie IEAGHG, IEAIETS and IEA Bioenergy. The purpose of the conference was to bring together a wide range of scientific and technological disciplines and stakeholders, in order to engage in various aspects of research relating to negative CO2 emissions. This included various negative emission technologies, socio-economic and climate modelling, and climate policies and incentives. The conference was a major scientific event and the first in a conference series. The next conference will be held in the spring of 2020. This paper reports highlights and important messages from the conference.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Aber JD, 57, 238, 433 Ackerman IL, 41 Aide TM, 217 Allstott EJ, 352.  This work is about ECOSYSTEMS Page 1 Author Index—Volume 3, 2000 A Aber JD, 57, 238, 433 Ackerman IL, 41 Aide TM, 217 Allstott EJ, 352 Aydin K, 545 B Baldocchi DD, 115 Baron JS, 352 Berntson GM, 238 Berry JA, 115 Binkley D, 321 Blair JM, 308 Bond BY, 115 Brandt CC, 396 Brock W, 451 Bronte C, 545 Burke IC, 344 Butler TJ, 210 C Callaway RM, 254 Camill P, 534 Campbell JL, 185 Canadell JG, 115 Caraco NFM, 590 Carlisle JD, 308 Carpenter SR, 1, 131, 332, 495, 561 Cattânio JH, 41 Chadwick OA, 522 Chavas JP, 11 Chen Y, 369 Christensen V, 70 Chrzanowski TH, 293 Clark JS, 534 Cole JJ, 419 Collins SL, 308 Cosme R, 193 Costanza R, 4 Cox SP, 545 Crews TE, 386 D Davidson EA, 41 Dodds WK, 574 Driscoll CT, 159 E Ebener M, 545 Ehleringer JR, 115 Elser JJ, 293 Essington TE, 131 Evans-White MA, 574 F Farrington H, 386 Fay PA, 308 Field CB, 115 Findlay DL, 293 Folke C, 36 G Galford AE, 293 Geib SI, 229 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Emerging Trends in Carbon Cycle Science.  This work is about I'll discuss emerging trends in the carbon cycle and highlight components of its study that remain highly uncertain, requiring more effort by the scientific community. Particular focus will be placed in trying to understand the behaviour of the carbon cycle under a continuous warming of the planet, and under possible low emissions scenarios which will rapidly change the strength of carbon sinks and even reverse them. Key topics include carbon-climate feedbacks, the symmetry (or otherwise) of the carbon cycle to increase CO2 and decrease CO2, and responses to climate extremes.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Plants Absorb More CO2 than We Thought But….  This work is about About 50 per cent of all CO2 taken in by photosynthesis goes back to the atmosphere soon after through plant respiration. Of what remains, more than 90 per cent also returns to the atmosphere through microbial decomposition in the soils and disturbances such as fire–what stays is the land sink.About 50 per cent of all CO 2 taken in by photosynthesis goes back to the atmosphere soon after through plant respiration. Of what remains, more than 90 per cent also returns to the atmosphere through microbial decomposition in the soils and disturbances such as fire–what stays is the land sink.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon and other biogeochemical cycles and feedbacks.  This work is about ES 6: 3-5 Replace “It is unequivocal that emissions of the well-mixed greenhouse gases (GHG) carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2 O) from human activities are the main driver of increases in atmospheric GHG concentrations since the pre-industrial period.”
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Technical summary.  This work is about Background: It has been over 25 years since any type of archaeological study has been completed on the Atlantic OCS for MMS. The study Summary and Analysis of Cultural
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Methane removal and atmospheric restoration.  This work is about Zeolites and other technologies should be evaluated and pursued for reducing methane concentrations in the atmosphere from 1,860 ppb to preindustrial levels of ~750 ppb. Such a goal of atmospheric restoration provides a positive framework for change at a time when climate action is desperately needed.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Developing a common strategy for integrative global environmental change research and outreach: the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP).  This work is about The Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP) was established in 2001 by four global environmental change (GEC) research programmes: DIVERSITAS, IGBP, IHDP and WCRP. ESSP facilitates the study of the Earth's environment as an integrated system in order to understand how and why it is changing, and to explore the implications of these changes for global and regional sustainability. Joint research projects on carbon dynamics, food, water and health have been established. As a result of an independent review, the ESSP developed a new strategy that will provide an internationally coordinated and holistic approach to Earth system science. The approach integrates natural and social sciences from regional to the global scale. The mainstay of the ESSP is to identify and define Earth system science challenges, enable integrative research to address these challenges, and build scientific capacity. The GEC …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The effects of elevated [CO2] on plant-soil carbon below-ground: A summary and synthesis.  This work is about We undertake a synthesis of the most relevant results from the presentations at the meeting “Plant-Soil Carbon Below-Ground: The Effects of Elevated CO2” (Oxford-UK, September 1995), many of which are published in this Special Issue. Below-ground responses to elevated [CO2] are important because the capacity of soils for long-term carbon sequestration. We draw the following conclusions: (i) several ecosystems exposed to elevated [CO2] showed sustained increased CO2 uptake at the plot level for many years. A few systems, however, showed complete down-regulation of net CO2 uptake after several years of elevated [CO2] exposure; (ii) under elevated [CO2], a greater proportion of fixed carbon is generally allocated below-ground, potentially increasing the capacity of below-ground sinks; and (iii) some of the increased capacity of these sinks may lead to increased long-term soil carbon …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Will the terrestrial carbon sink saturate soon?.  This work is about CSIRO Research Publications Repository - Will the terrestrial carbon sink saturate soon? Skip to Main Content CSIRO Home Research Publications Repository Contact Us Help CSIRO Login Username Password Search Publications Advanced Search Browse Publications Selected Records () Will the terrestrial carbon sink saturate soon? Description Select | OK Print Author: Canadell, Josep Date of Publication: 1999 Publication Type: Journal Article Journal Title: Climate Change Newsletter Volume: 11 Issue: 4 Pages: 1-3 Keywords: CSIRO Sustainable Ecosystems; carbon sequestration/carbon sink Identifier: procite:20761c53-5944-4e02-928c-e0563195a0dc Attribution Statement: Canadell, Josep. Will the terrestrial carbon sink saturate soon?. Climate Change Newsletter. 1999; 11(4):1-3. http://hdl.handle.net/102.100.100/212283?index=1 PermaLink http://hdl.handle.net/102.100.100/212283?index=1 Loading …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Ten new insights in climate science 2022.  This work is about Non-technical summary We summarize what we assess as the past year's most important findings within climate change research: limits to adaptation, vulnerability hotspots, new threats coming from the climate–health nexus, climate (im)mobility and security, sustainable practices for land use and finance, losses and damages, inclusive societal climate decisions and ways to overcome structural barriers to accelerate mitigation and limit global warming to below 2°C. Technical summary We synthesize 10 topics within climate research where there have been significant advances or emerging scientific consensus since January 2021. The selection of these insights was based on input from an international open call with broad disciplinary scope. Findings concern: (1) new aspects of soft and hard limits to adaptation; (2) the emergence of regional vulnerability hotspots from climate impacts and human vulnerability …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Networks and consortia.  This work is about CSIRO Research Publications Repository - Networks and consortia Skip to Main Content CSIRO Home Research Publications Repository Contact Us Help CSIRO Login Username Password Search Publications Advanced Search Browse Publications Selected Records () Networks and consortia Description Select | OK Print Author: Ingram, John SI; Canadell, Josep; Elliott, T.; Hunt, LA; Linder, S.; Murdiyarso, D.; Stafford Smith, Mark; Valentin, C. Date of Publication: 1999 Publication Type: Book Chapter Book Title: The Terrestrial Biosphere and Global Change: Implications for Natural and Managed Ecosystems Pages: 45-65 Publisher: Cambridge University Press Place of Publication: Cambridge Keywords: CSIRO Sustainable Ecosystems; climate change/ecosystems Series Title & No: International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme Book Series Series Volume Id: 4 Language: English ISSN/ISBN: 0521624800 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Ten years of advancing knowledge on the global carbon cycle and its management.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A large and persistent carbon sink in the world's forests.  This work is about A Large and Persistent Carbon Sink in the World's Forests - Archive ouverte HAL Accéder directement au contenu Accéder directement à la navigation Toggle navigation HAL HAL - Archives Ouvertes La connaissance libre et partagée Accueil Dépôt Consultation Les derniers dépôts Par type de publication Par discipline Par année de publication Par structure de recherche Les portails de l'archive Recherche Documentation cea-00819253, version 1 Article dans une revue A Large and Persistent Carbon Sink in the World's Forests yude Pan 1, * Richard A. Birdsey 1 Jingyun Fang 2 Richard Houghton Pekka E. Kauppi Werner A. Kurz Oliver L. Phillips Anatoly Shvidenko Simon L. Lewis Josep G. Canadell Philippe Ciais 3, 4 Robert B. Jackson Stephen W. Pacala A. David Mcguire Shilong Piao Aapo Rautiainen Stephen Sitch Daniel Hayes 5 Détails * Auteur correspondant 1 US Department of Agriculture Forest Service …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Ecosystem collapse and climate change: an introduction.  This work is about Concerns about climate-related “collapse” of ecosystems are growing, including the irreversible loss of habitats, species, and critical ecosystem functions. Diverse terrestrial and marine ecosystems have experienced collapse-like dynamics throughout the world, particularly over the past decade. This book addresses the over-arching question: “Are we seeing predicted “future” climate impacts now, with the rapid transformation and loss of ecosystems as we know them?”In each case of ecosystem collapse documented here, the authors believe that climate change is playing a dominant or contributing role to the ecosystem’s apparent demise, often interacting with other pressures. The book covers three latitudinal regions: (1) polar and boreal ecosystems, such as the impacts of water stress with a novel pathogen on alpine vegetation mosaics in Antarctic Macquarie Island, forest transitions to shrublands and grasslands …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: lackson RB, Ehleringer IR, Mooney HA, Sala OE, Schulze ED (1996) Maximum rooting depth for vegetation types at the global scale.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Impacts of decadal climate trends on Australian vegetation.  This work is about No Slide Title Page 1 Impacts of decadal climate trends on Australian vegetation Michael Raupach, Peter Briggs, Edward King, Michael Schmidt, Matt Paget, Jenny Lovell, Pep Canadell CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research, Canberra, ACT, Australia Acknowledgments: Damian Barrett, Susan Campbell, Dean Graetz, Tim McVicar, Udaya Senarath, Stephen Plummer and GlobCarbon (ESA) EOC Symposium, Canberra, 15-16 February 2005 Page 2 2 Background and outline x A long (24 y) time series of NOAA-AVHRR data has been assembled by the former CSIRO Earth Observation Centre (now in the Land and Atmosphere Stream, CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research) x Questions arising • What trends in Australian vegetation cover are revealed? • How certain are the observed trends? • Can trends be attributed to variations in climate and/or land use? • What is the implication for the Australian terrestrial …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Widespread unquantified conversion of old boreal forests to plantations.  This work is about Across the boreal biome, clear‐cutting of old, previously non clear‐cut forests with high naturalness followed by tree planting or seeding is a major land use change. However, how much previously uncut forest has been converted to plantations remains unquantified. We combine Swedish national databases on clear‐cuts and forest inventories to show that at least 19% of all clear‐cuts since 2003 have occurred in old forests that were most likely not previously cut and planted or seeded. Old forests have been cut and lost at a steady rate of ∼1.4% per year for the same period, and at this rate they will disappear by the 2070s. There is further evidence that this type of unreported forest conversion is occurring across much of the world's boreal forest.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Multi-decadal increase of forest burned area in Australia is linked to climate change.  This work is about Fire activity in Australia is strongly affected by high inter-annual climate variability and extremes. Through changes in the climate, anthropogenic climate change has the potential to alter fire dynamics. Here we compile satellite (19 and 32 years) and ground-based (90 years) burned area datasets, climate and weather observations, and simulated fuel loads for Australian forests. Burned area in Australia’s forests shows a linear positive annual trend but an exponential increase during autumn and winter. The mean number of years since the last fire has decreased consecutively in each of the past four decades, while the frequency of forest megafire years (>1 Mha burned) has markedly increased since 2000. The increase in forest burned area is consistent with increasingly more dangerous fire weather conditions, increased risk factors associated with pyroconvection, including fire-generated thunderstorms, and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Top–down assessment of the Asian carbon budget since the mid 1990s.  This work is about Increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) is the principal driver of anthropogenic climate change. Asia is an important region for the global carbon budget, with 4 of the world’s 10 largest national emitters of CO2. Using an ensemble of seven atmospheric inverse systems, we estimated land biosphere fluxes (natural, land-use change and fires) based on atmospheric observations of CO2 concentration. The Asian land biosphere was a net sink of −0.46 (−0.70–0.24) PgC per year (median and range) for 1996–2012 and was mostly located in East Asia, while in South and Southeast Asia the land biosphere was close to carbon neutral. In East Asia, the annual CO2 sink increased between 1996–2001 and 2008–2012 by 0.56 (0.30–0.81) PgC, accounting for ∼35% of the increase in the global land biosphere sink. Uncertainty in the fossil fuel emissions contributes significantly (32%) to the uncertainty in land …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Fire in Australian savannas: from leaf to landscape.  This work is about Savanna ecosystems comprise 22% of the global terrestrial surface and 25% of Australia (almost 1.9 million km2) and provide significant ecosystem services through carbon and water cycles and the maintenance of biodiversity. The current structure, composition and distribution of Australian savannas have coevolved with fire, yet remain driven by the dynamic constraints of their bioclimatic niche. Fire in Australian savannas influences both the biophysical and biogeochemical processes at multiple scales from leaf to landscape. Here, we present the latest emission estimates from Australian savanna biomass burning and their contribution to global greenhouse gas budgets. We then review our understanding of the impacts of fire on ecosystem function and local surface water and heat balances, which in turn influence regional climate. We show how savanna fires are coupled to the global climate through the carbon …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The growing role of methane in anthropogenic climate change.  This work is about Unlike CO 2, atmospheric methane concentrations are rising faster than at any time in the past two decades and, since 2014, are now approaching the most greenhouse-gas-intensive scenarios. The reasons for this renewed growth are still unclear, primarily because of uncertainties in the global methane budget. New analysis suggests that the recent rapid rise in global methane concentrations is predominantly biogenic-most likely from agriculture-with smaller contributions from fossil fuel use and possibly wetlands. Additional attention is urgently needed to quantify and reduce methane emissions. Methane mitigation offers rapid climate benefits and economic, health and agricultural co-benefits that are highly complementary to CO 2 mitigation.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon budget 2016.  This work is about Accurate assessment of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere the global carbon budget is important to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the development of climate policies, and project future climate change. Here we describe data sets and methodology to quantify all major components of the global carbon budget, including their uncertainties, based on the combination of a range of data, algorithms, statistics, and model estimates and their interpretation by a broad scientific community. We discuss changes compared to previous estimates and consistency within and among components, alongside methodology and data limitations. CO2 emissions from fossil fuels and industry (EFF) are based on energy statistics and cement production data, respectively, while emissions from land-use change (ELUC), mainly deforestation, are based on combined evidence from land-cover change data, fire activity associated with deforestation, and models. The global atmospheric CO2 concentration is measured directly and its rate of growth (GATM) is computed from the annual changes in concentration. The mean ocean CO2 sink (SOCEAN) is based on observations from the 1990s, while the annual anomalies and trends are estimated with ocean models. The variability in SOCEAN is evaluated with data products based on surveys of ocean CO2 measurements. The global residual terrestrial CO2 sink (SLAND) is estimated by the difference of the other terms of the global carbon budget and compared to results of independent dynamic global vegetation …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global energy growth is outpacing decarbonization.  This work is about Recent reports have highlighted the challenge of keeping global average temperatures below 2 C and—even more so—1.5 C (IPCC 2018). Fossil-fuel burning and cement production release∼ 90% of all CO 2 emissions from human activities. After a three-year hiatus with stable global emissions (Jackson et al 2016; Le Quéré C et al 2018a; IEA 2018), CO 2 emissions grew by 1.6% in 2017 to 36.2 Gt (billion tonnes), and are expected to grow a further 2.7% in 2018 (range: 1.8%–3.7%) to a record 37.1±2 Gt CO 2 (Le Quéré et al 2018b). Additional increases in 2019 remain uncertain but appear likely because of persistent growth in oil and natural gas use and strong growth projected for the global economy. Coal use has slowed markedly in the last few years, potentially peaking, but its future trajectory remains uncertain. Despite positive progress in∼ 19 countries whose economies have grown over the last decade …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Two or Three Degrees.  This work is about The world’s energy mix is changing rapidly. Renewables such as wind and solar photovoltaics (PV) increasingly provide low-carbon, low-water, and low-air-pollution energy around the world (BP 2014). Denmark now generates 40 percent of its electricity yearly from wind power, and in Germany 20 percent of the country’s electricity can be solar generated on sunny summer days.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global nitrous oxide budget: A comprehensive assessment through harnessing extensive data and bottom-up (BU)/top-down (TD) framework.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Preliminary results of the Global Methane Budget 2000-2020: how the methane cycle has changed over the last two decades?.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Mapping land-use fluxes for 2001–2020 from global models to national inventories.  This work is about With the focus of climate policy shifting from pledges to implementation, there is an increasing need to track progress on climate change mitigation at country level, especially for the land-use sector. Despite new tools and models offering unprecedented monitoring opportunities, striking differences remain in estimations of anthropogenic land-use CO2 fluxes between the national greenhouse gas inventories (NGHGIs) used to assess compliance with the Paris Agreement, and the Global Carbon Budget and IPCC assessment reports, both based on global bookkeeping models (BMs).
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Land Use Change and.  This work is about The annual economic growth-rate of South Korea is on average approximately 8.4% from 1981 through 1997. Primary energy was used at the rate of 45,717,000 TOE/yr in 1981 and 174,692,000 TOE/yr in 1997 (Korea Energy Economics Institute 1998), indicating that CO2 emission of South Korea has increased rapidly.Many people presume that forest is a major sink of CO2 in Korea. Since approximately 65% of national land area is covered with forests and most of forests were destroyed during the Korean War in the early 1950s, those have been actively reforested since the 1960s. For example, forest woody biomass stock of South Korea is 60 million m3 in 1964 and increased to 284 million m3 in 1993. As planted trees are younger than 40 years in South Koran and still growing. forests may be removing a large amount of atmospheric CO2.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Group on Earth Observations Carbon and Greenhouse Gas Initiative.  This work is about An improved understanding of the global carbon cycle is important to the success of efforts to mitigate climate change, such as agreed in the Paris meeting of the UN Conference of the Parties in 2016. Climate change mitigation and adaptation requires action by individual countries, municipalities, cities, and their citizens. These actions require a diverse range of information. Current efforts responding to the need for these carbon observations are, however, fragmented. There is a need to coordinate observations on carbon, GHG measurements, and ecosystem processes related to carbon cycle dynamics. The GEO Carbon and Greenhouse Gas Initiative (GEO‐C) was launched to further support continuity and coherence of the ongoing efforts and facilitate their cooperation and interoperability. The GEO‐C Initiative (1) supports the development of a holistic cross‐domain, global carbon …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Effects of Elevated Carbon Dioxide on Litter Chemistry and Decomposition.  This work is about The results of published and unpublished experiments investigating the impacts of elevated carbon dioxide on the chemistry (nitrogen and lignin concentration) of leaf litter and the decomposition of plant tissues are assembled in a format appropriate for statistical meta-analysis of the effect of carbon dioxide.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Una sociedad ‘descarbonizada’.  This work is about Las menguantes reservas de depósitos de petróleo y gas en todo el mundo y la creciente dificultad de prospección y explotación de nueva reservas han supuesto un condicionamiento positivo a la hora de abordar la reducción de emisiones de gases necesaria para mitigar el cambio climático. La menor disponibilidad de reservas y la creciente preocupación por la seguridad energética nacional pueden propiciar que los gobiernos, de forma natural, actúen con celeridad para impulsar energías alternativas. Si a ello añadimos el celo extremo de los países ricos en petróleo y gas en proteger sus recursos y la inestabilidad política en muchos de ellos, el hecho es que el precio del barril de petróleo alcanzó un récord histórico de 147 dólares en el año 2008.Parece evidente, pues, que éste es un momento idóneo para transformar del trayecto seguido durante dos siglos de apuesta exclusiva por los combustibles fósiles, lo cual se ve reforzado por el creciente reconocimiento de la necesidad urgente de “descarbonizar” la sociedad para prevenir los efectos negativos del cambio climático. Sin embargo, la realidad y los desafíos consiguientes ofrecen un panorama muy distinto. Las reservas subterráneas de combustibles fósiles son aún abundantes y permitirían mantener
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Primary forests as indicators of global change and land use effects on carbon storage and drought resistance.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Corrected 27 July 2011; see page 11.  This work is about PgC (8%) in deadwood, and 43±3 PgC (5%) in litter (table S3). Geographically, 471±93 PgC (55%) is stored in tropical forests, with 272±23 PgC (32%) in boreal and 119±6 PgC (13%) in temperate forests. The C stock density in tropical and boreal forests is comparable (242 versus 239 Mg C ha–1), while the density in temperate forests is about 60% of the other two biomes (155 Mg C ha–1). Although tropical and boreal forests store the most carbon, there is a fundamental difference in their carbon structures: tropical forests have 56% of carbon stored in biomass and 32% in soil, while boreal forests have only 20% in biomass and 60% in soil. The average annual change in the C stock of established forests (Table 1) indicates a large uptake of 2.5±0.4 PgC yr–1 for 1990-1999 and a similar uptake of 2.3±0.5 PgC yr–1 for 2000-2007. Adding to those the C uptakes in tropical regrowth forests indicates a persistent global gross forest C sink of 4.0±0.7 PgC yr–1 over the two periods (Tables 1 and 2). Despite the consistency of the global C sink since 1990, our analysis revealed important regional and temporal differences in sink sizes. The C sink in temperate forests increased by 17% in 2000-2007 compared to 1990-1999, in contrast to C uptake in intact tropical forests that decreased by 23%(but non-significantly). Boreal forests, on average, showed little difference between the two time periods (Fig. 1). Subtracting C emission losses from tropical deforestation and degradation, the global net forest C sink was 1.0±0.8 and 1.2±0.9 PgC yr–1 for 1990-1999 and 2000-2007 (Table 1).
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Historical greenhouse gas concentrations for climate modelling (CMIP6).  This work is about Atmospheric greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations are at unprecedented, record-high levels compared to the last 800 000 years. Those elevated GHG concentrations warm the planet and – partially offset by net cooling effects by aerosols – are largely responsible for the observed warming over the past 150 years. An accurate representation of GHG concentrations is hence important to understand and model recent climate change. So far, community efforts to create composite datasets of GHG concentrations with seasonal and latitudinal information have focused on marine boundary layer conditions and recent trends since the 1980s. Here, we provide consolidated datasets of historical atmospheric concentrations (mole fractions) of 43 GHGs to be used in the Climate Model Intercomparison Project – Phase 6 (CMIP6) experiments. The presented datasets are based on AGAGE and NOAA networks, firn and ice core data, and archived air data, and a large set of published studies. In contrast to previous intercomparisons, the new datasets are latitudinally resolved and include seasonality. We focus on the period 1850–2014 for historical CMIP6 runs, but data are also provided for the last 2000 years. We provide consolidated datasets in various spatiotemporal resolutions for carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O), as well as 40 other GHGs, namely 17 ozone-depleting substances, 11 hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), 9 perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) and sulfuryl fluoride (SO2F2). In addition, we provide three equivalence species that aggregate concentrations of GHGs other than CO2 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Mediterranean terrestrial ecosystems: research priorities on global change effects.  This work is about Ecosystems of the Mediterranean Basin are suggested as model regions for global change research, particularly in relation to the importance of land use changes. The large body of preexisting ecological knowledge should facilitate progress on complex issues relating to interactions among multiple drivers of global change, including climate, atmospheric, land use and socio‐economic changes. Four research areas appear as priorities in relation to pressing needs for prediction: (1) fire regimes and effects; (2) feedbacks from the land to the atmosphere; (3) water availability and quality; and (4) changes in ecological diversity. We summarize current knowledge and present future directions for research in these areas. While a number of the topics outlined as priorities are presently addressed by ongoing studies, some of the future challenges will lie in appropriate coordination and synthesis of that research. We …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Expert assessment of vulnerability of permafrost carbon to climate change.  This work is about Approximately 1700 Pg of soil carbon (C) are stored in the northern circumpolar permafrost zone, more than twice as much C than in the atmosphere. The overall amount, rate, and form of C released to the atmosphere in a warmer world will influence the strength of the permafrost C feedback to climate change. We used a survey to quantify variability in the perception of the vulnerability of permafrost C to climate change. Experts were asked to provide quantitative estimates of permafrost change in response to four scenarios of warming. For the highest warming scenario (RCP 8.5), experts hypothesized that C release from permafrost zone soils could be 19–45 Pg C by 2040, 162–288 Pg C by 2100, and 381–616 Pg C by 2300 in CO2 equivalent using 100-year CH4 global warming potential (GWP). These values become 50 % larger using 20-year CH4 GWP, with a third to a half of expected climate forcing …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The carbon budget of South Asia.  This work is about The source and sinks of carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) due to anthropogenic and natural biospheric activities were estimated for the South Asian region (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka). Flux estimates were based on top-down methods that use inversions of atmospheric data, and bottom-up methods that use field observations, satellite data, and terrestrial ecosystem models. Based on atmospheric CO2 inversions, the net biospheric CO2 flux in South Asia (equivalent to the Net Biome Productivity, NBP) was a sink, estimated at −104 ± 150 Tg C yr−1 during 2007–2008. Based on the bottom-up approach, the net biospheric CO2 flux is estimated to be −191 ± 193 Tg C yr−1 during the period of 2000–2009. This last net flux results from the following flux components: (1) the Net Ecosystem Productivity, NEP (net primary production minus heterotrophic respiration) of −220 ± 186 Tg C yr−1 (2) the annual net carbon flux from land-use change of −14 ± 50 Tg C yr−1, which resulted from a sink of −16 Tg C yr−1 due to the establishment of tree plantations and wood harvest, and a source of 2 Tg C yr−1 due to the expansion of croplands; (3) the riverine export flux from terrestrial ecosystems to the coastal oceans of +42.9 Tg C yr−1; and (4) the net CO2 emission due to biomass burning of +44.1 ± 13.7 Tg C yr−1. Including the emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels of 444 Tg C yr−1 for the 2000s, we estimate a net CO2 land–atmosphere flux of 297 Tg C yr−1. In addition to CO2, a fraction of the sequestered carbon in terrestrial ecosystems is released to the atmosphere as CH4. Based on bottom-up and top-down …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Lower land-use emissions responsible for increased net land carbon sink during the slow warming period.  This work is about The terrestrial carbon sink accelerated during 1998–2012, concurrently with the slow warming period, but the mechanisms behind this acceleration are unclear. Here we analyse recent changes in the net land carbon sink (NLS) and its driving factors, using atmospheric inversions and terrestrial carbon models. We show that the linear trend of NLS during 1998–2012 is about 0.17 ± 0.05 Pg C yr−2 , which is three times larger than during 1980–1998 (0.05 ± 0.05 Pg C yr−2). According to terrestrial carbon model simulations, the intensification of the NLS cannot be explained by CO2 fertilization or climate change alone. We therefore use a bookkeeping model to explore the contribution of changes in land-use emissions and find that decreasing land-use emissions are the dominant cause of the intensification of the NLS during the slow warming period. This reduction of land-use emissions is due to both decreased …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global N2O model intercomparison project.  This work is about Battaglia, G., and F. Joos, 2018: Marine N 2 O emissions from nitrification and denitrification constrained by modern observations and projected in multimillennial global warming simulations. Global Biogeochem. Cycles, 32, 92–121, https://doi. org/10.1002/2017GB005671.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Methane Emissions from Wetlands in China and Their Climate Feedbacks in the 21st Century.  This work is about Wetlands are large sinks of carbon dioxide (CO2) and sources of methane (CH4). Both fluxes can be altered by wetland management (e.g., restoration), leading to changes in the climate system. Here, we use multiple models to assess CH4 emissions and CO2 sequestration from the wetlands in China and the impacts on climate under three climate scenarios and four wetland management scenarios with various levels of wetland restoration in the 21st century. We find that wetland restoration leads to increased CH4 emissions with a national total of 0.32–11.31 Tg yr–1. These emissions induce an additional radiative forcing of 0.0005–0.0075 W m–2 yr–1 and global annual mean air temperature rise of 0.0003–0.0053 °C yr–1, across all future climate and management scenarios. However, wetland restoration also resulted in net CO2 sequestration, leading to a combined net greenhouse gas sink in all climate …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Quantifying terrestrial carbon sinks.  This work is about Terrestrial carbon sinks play a central role in the international climate negotiations and within national strategies to slow down net greenhouse gase emissions. In particular, there is a great interest in land-use options that enhance carbon sinks and/or reduce emissions from deforestation. Climate mitigation efforts are also becoming more integrated into the larger portfolio of environmental and socio-economic activities geared towards sustainable development. In this respect, management of the terrestrial carbon cycle is even more important because it is fundamentally linked to multiple ecosystem properties and services essential to human wellbeing. To support this effort there is an urgent need to improve process understanding of land carbon sources and sinks, and to develop capabilities that will allow operational monitoring of the dynamic evolution of the carbon cycle. In this special issue we present a number …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Land use/cover change and the terrestrial carbon cycle in the Asia-Pacific region.  This work is about 正 Current atmospheric CO_2 concentrations are the highest on record in the last half a millionyears and are expected to reach between 540 and 970 ppm over the next one hundred years. Thisunprecedented increase is linked to human activities including fossil fuel combustion anddeforestation. The increase in CO_2 concentrations, and to a lesser extent in other greenhouse gases, is linked to changes in climate patterns and variability, and to an average global warming of 0.6℃ during the 20th Century (IPCC 2001). Changes in land use and cover are critical controls of the distribution and strength of carbon
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Increased extreme fire weather occurrence in southeast Australia and related atmospheric drivers.  This work is about There is evidence suggesting that fire activity in southeast Australia has increased in the past two decades. There is also anecdotal evidence that pyrocumulonimbus events have become more common, although the observed record is short. We explore the extent to which possible changes in fire and pyrocumulonimbus occurrence in southeast Australia can be explained by changes in the number of extreme (above the 95th percentile) days per year of two fire-weather indices, the Forest Fire Danger Index (FFDI) and the continuous Haines index (C-Haines). For the period 1958 through 2020, we show that there is a dependence between the number of extreme FFDI days per year and burned area for forested parts of southeast Australia. To a lesser extent, there is a relationship between the FFDI and pyrocumulonimbus occurrences. We find an increase in the occurrence of extreme FFDI days from the late 1990s …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Interactive effects of carbon dioxide and environmental stress on plants and ecosystems: a synthesis.  This work is about This chapter summarizes the interactive effects of rising atmospheric CO2 and environmental stress. Research on CO2 and stress interactions is needed to address one question in two ways. One is whether or not elevated CO2 ameliorates or exacerbates environmental stresses. The other is how environmental stress moderates the direct effect of elevated CO2 on plants and ecosystems. Results from plant-level studies have suggested that elevated CO2 is likely to ameliorate mild drought, salinity, UV-B, and ozone stresses, to exacerbate nutrient stress, and to interact with temperature in a complex fashion. Accordingly, direct effects of elevated CO2 on plants are likely to be amplified under mild drought and salinity stresses but dampened by nutrient stress. At the ecosystem scale, there is very limited evidence to suggest one way or another on impacts of CO2 and stress interactions because …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: We Can Still Keep Global Warming below 2◦ C—But the Hard Work Is about to Start.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon sources and sinks: 2007 update.  This work is about The increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) is the single largest human perturbation of the climate system. Its rate of change reflects the balance between human-driven carbon emissions and the dynamics of a number of terrestrial and ocean processes that remove or emit CO2. It is the long term evolution of this balance that will determine to large extent the speed and magnitude of climate change and the mitigation requirements to stabilize atmospheric CO2 concentrations at any given level. In this talk, we’ll present the most recent trends in global carbon sources and sinks, updated to 2007, with particularly focus on major shifts occurring since 2000. Atmospheric CO2 growth: Annual mean growth rate of atmospheric CO2 was 2.2 ppm per year in 2007 (up from 1.8 ppm in 2006), and above the 2.0 ppm average for the period 2000-2007. The average annual mean growth rate for the previous 20 years was about 1.5 ppm per year. This increase brought the atmospheric CO2 concentration to 383 ppm in 2007, 37% above the concentration at the start of the industrial revolution (about 280 ppm in 1750). The present concentration is the highest during the last 650,000 years and probably during the last 20 million years.[ppm= parts per million]. Emissions from land use change: Land use change was responsible for estimated net emissions of 1.5 PgC per year to the atmosphere. This is largely the difference between CO2 emissions from deforestation and CO2 uptake by reforestation. Emissions for 2006 and 2007 were extrapolated from the previous 25-year trend of 1.5 PgC per year. Land use change emissions come almost exclusively from …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Sources and sinks of carbon dioxide in populous Asia.  This work is about The recently concluded 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) agreed to limit the increase in global temperature to less than 2oC above pre-industrial levels, with a more aspirational target of 1.5oC. Achieving these policy goals will require extraordinary input from the scientific community to define anthropogenic emission targets that account for natural biosphere sources and sinks of carbon dioxide (CO2), consistent with the climate targets. Asian countries, being densely populated and emerging global economic powers, are key players in defining future emission trajectories. The average fossil emissions from the three regions are estimated to be 2.4, 0.5 and 0.3 petagrammes of carbon per year (PgC yr-1) for East, South and Southeast Asia, respectively, and have increased by 67, 58 and 33 percent over the period 2003–2012. Here, we estimate land biosphere CO2 fluxes using: 1) simulations of terrestrial ecosystem models driven with global and regional atmospheric and climate observations and 2) atmospheric CO2 inverse models. Based on observations of atmospheric CO2 and inverse models, we show that on average over the period 2003–2012, the land biosphere (excluding fossil fuel emissions) in the three Asian regions in our study is either a CO2 sink (0.35 PgC yr-1 in East Asia) or source neutral (South and Southeast Asia). Consistently, our terrestrial ecosystem modelling suggests that the land biosphere of South and Southeast Asia were nearly neutral, but disagrees for East Asia.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Trends in the sources and sinks of carbon dioxide, Nat.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: FLUXNET-CH             4             Synthesis Activity: Objectives, Observations, and Future Directions.  This work is about This paper describes the formation of, and initial results for, a new FLUXNET coordination network for ecosystem-scale methane (CH 4 ) measurements at 60 sites globally, organized by the Global Carbon Project in partnership with other initiatives and regional flux tower networks. The objectives of the effort are presented along with an overview of the coverage of eddy covariance (EC) CH 4 flux measurements globally, initial results comparing CH 4 fluxes across the sites, and future research directions and needs. Annual estimates of net CH 4 fluxes across sites ranged from −0.2 ± 0.02 g C m –2 yr –1 for an upland forest site to 114.9 ± 13.4 g C m –2 yr –1 for an estuarine freshwater marsh, with fluxes exceeding 40 g C m –2 yr –1 at multiple sites. Average annual soil …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global wetland contribution to 2000–2012 atmospheric methane growth rate dynamics.  This work is about Increasing atmospheric methane (CH 4) concentrations have contributed to approximately 20% of anthropogenic climate change. Despite the importance of CH 4 as a greenhouse gas, its atmospheric growth rate and dynamics over the past two decades, which include a stabilization period (1999–2006), followed by renewed growth starting in 2007, remain poorly understood. We provide an updated estimate of CH 4 emissions from wetlands, the largest natural global CH 4 source, for 2000–2012 using an ensemble of biogeochemical models constrained with remote sensing surface inundation and inventory-based wetland area data. Between 2000–2012, boreal wetland CH 4 emissions increased by 1.2 Tg yr− 1 (− 0.2–3.5 Tg yr− 1), tropical emissions decreased by 0.9 Tg yr− 1 (− 3.2− 1.1 Tg yr− 1), yet globally, emissions remained unchanged at 184±22 Tg yr− 1. Changing air temperature was responsible for …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Integrating the evidence for a terrestrial carbon sink caused by increasing atmospheric CO2.  This work is about Atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration ([CO2]) is increasing, which increases leaf‐scale photosynthesis and intrinsic water‐use efficiency. These direct responses have the potential to increase plant growth, vegetation biomass, and soil organic matter; transferring carbon from the atmosphere into terrestrial ecosystems (a carbon sink). A substantial global terrestrial carbon sink would slow the rate of [CO2] increase and thus climate change. However, ecosystem CO2 responses are complex or confounded by concurrent changes in multiple agents of global change and evidence for a [CO2]‐driven terrestrial carbon sink can appear contradictory. Here we synthesize theory and broad, multidisciplinary evidence for the effects of increasing [CO2] (iCO2) on the global terrestrial carbon sink. Evidence suggests a substantial increase in global photosynthesis since pre‐industrial times. Established theory, supported by …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Drivers of declining CO2 emissions in 18 developed economies.  This work is about Global emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from fossil fuels and industry increased by 2.2% per year on average between 2005 and 2015. Global emissions need to peak and decline rapidly to limit climate change to well below 2 °C of warming,, which is one of the goals of the Paris Agreement. Untangling the reasons underlying recent changes in emissions trajectories is critical to guide efforts to attain those goals. Here we analyse the drivers of decreasing CO2 emissions in a group of 18 developed economies that have decarbonized over the period 2005–2015. We show that within this group, the displacement of fossil fuels by renewable energy and decreases in energy use explain decreasing CO2 emissions. However, the decrease in energy use can be explained at least in part by a lower growth in gross domestic product. Correlation analysis suggests that policies on renewable energy are supporting …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Protecting climate with forests.  This work is about Policies for climate mitigation on land rarely acknowledge biophysical factors, such as reflectivity, evaporation, and surface roughness. Yet such factors can alter temperatures much more than carbon sequestration does, and often in a conflicting way. We outline a framework for examining biophysical factors in mitigation policies and provide some best-practice recommendations based on that framework. Tropical projects—avoided deforestation, forest restoration, and afforestation—provide the greatest climate value, because carbon storage and biophysics align to cool the Earth. In contrast, the climate benefits of carbon storage are often counteracted in boreal and other snow-covered regions, where darker trees trap more heat than snow does. Managers can increase the climate benefit of some forest projects by using more reflective and deciduous species and through urban forestry projects that reduce energy …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Greenhouse Gas Budgets in Central and Western Asia from 1960 to 2019.  This work is about The vast landmass of Central and West Asia is home to the worlds current petroleum production, which is regarded as the mainstay for many countries in this region. Meanwhile, as an arid or hyper-arid region, it is extremely sensitive to climate change, which will place the train on water scarcity, ecosystem degradation, food security and to a further extent in economic development, population growth, as well as political stability. To mitigate climate change and adapt to its impacts, it is urgent to have a high-quality estimate of greenhouse gas (GHG) budgets of the natural and managed ecosystem in Central and West Asia, where the source/sink balance of GHGs remains large uncertainties. This study provides for the first time a comprehensive quantification of carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide fluxes from various natural and human sectors (eg natural soil, agriculture, fossil fuel and industry) by compiling and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Global Methane Budget.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Ecosystems: A Synthesis.  This work is about There is now a clear understanding of the multiple-driver nature of global change, and the need to address complex and nonlinear responses as we try to predict the future function and structure of the world's biomes.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Reconciling differences in CO2 emissions and removals from LULUCF by separating natural and land-use CO2 fluxes at the country level.  This work is about Anthropogenic and natural CO 2 fluxes on land constitute substantial CO 2 emissions and removals but are usually not well distinguished in national greenhouse gas inventories (NGHGIs) submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Instead, countries frequently include natural and indirect human-induced CO 2 fluxes on managed land in their estimates of CO 2 fluxes from land use, land-use change, and forestry (LULUCF), mostly due to methodological constraints. Comparisons of anthropogenic LULUCF flux estimates from global models and from NGHGI reports thus reveal a substantial gap. Globally, this gap could be successfully reconciled by considering the different definitions used by global models and by NGHGI reports. Recent improvements in LULUCF flux modelling enable such a reconciliation now also at the country-level.We separate natural and land-use …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: SCIENCE'S COMPASS _ L.  This work is about In all, 174 countries have ratified the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which aims at" the stabilization of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at a level that will prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system." In December 1997, the signatory nations agreed to the Kyoto Protocol, which sets out the first steps toward achieving this goal by reducing fossil fuel emissions and the net emissions from some terrestrial ecosystems in developed countries (known as Annex 1 countries in the protocol). According to the Kyoto Protocol, Annex 1 countries can reduce emissions by limiting fossil fuel consumption or by increasing net carbon sequestration in terrestrial carbon sinks. The inclusion of terrestrial carbon sources and sinks in a legally binding emissions reduction framework is significant (1). However, it creates a number of problems that, if not corrected, will seriously limit the protocol's effectiveness as follows:* The protocol limits the allowable terrestrial sources and sinks of carbon to strictly defined cases of" afforestation, reforestation and deforestation"(2) since 1990 (the" Kyoto forests"; see figure at right). There are, however, many more ways in which appropriate management of the terrestrial biosphere, especially of soils, can substantially reduce the buildup of atmospheric greenhouse gases.* The 1990 estimates of carbon emissions, which form the baseline for all emission reduction targets of the protocol, exclude sinks to terrestrial ecosystems. Nevertheless, sources and sinks from the
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A comprehensive synthesis of anthropogenic and natural sources and sinks of Australasia carbon budget (2010-2019).  This work is about Accurate national carbon budget assessments allow nations to evaluate their progress in cutting carbon emissions and therefore be aligned with the Paris Climate Agreement goals. To support the initiative of The REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes (RECCAP-2), we built a synthesis of the Australasia (Australia and New Zealand) terrestrial carbon budget for 2010-2019 based on top-down and bottom-up approaches. Major carbon flux components in the bottom-up budget (eg, net primary productivity and heterotrophic respiration) were simulated by CABLE model, Biome-BGC model and Cewn simulations. In addition, this budget include carbon flux components from the land-ocean aquatic continuum, such as inland waters, estuaries, blue carbon ecosystems, and continental shelves and carbon fluxes embodied in trade (export and import) of crops, woods, livestock and fossil fuel. We reconciled …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Increased soil N2O emissions from the Arctic-Boreal region: A non-negligible non-carbon climate feedback.  This work is about Nitrous oxide (N2O) is a potent greenhouse gas with 298 times the global warming potential (GWP) of CO2 on a 100-year time horizon. Atmospheric N2O burden significantly increased since the preindustrial period, mainly because of the enhanced soil N2O emissions. The Arctic-Boreal region stores about half of the global soil N stock, and undergoes amplified climate change which enhances N mineralization and promotes nitrification and denitrification. Moreover, warming leads to permafrost loss, as a result, large quantities of previously frozen soil N stocks become substrate for N2O production. However, this non-carbon climate feedback hasnt been studied at the regional scale. Here, we quantifies historical soil N2O emissions from the Arctic-Boreal region using process-based ecosystem models and disentangles the contributions of different driving factors by setting a series of simulation experiments. Our …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Report authorship and production team.  This work is about The figure showing global temperatures is adapted and updated from Figure 4 in the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) Statement on the Status of Global Climate in 2012 (https://library. wmo. int/doc_num. php? explnum_id= 7809). Global temperature data used are a mean of four different global data sets as described in IPCC AR6 Section 2.3. 1.1. 3 and Table 2.3. The Oceanic Nino Index (ONI) is defined as the three-month mean of ERSSTv5 sea surface temperature anomalies in the Niño 3.4 region (5 N to 5 S, 120 W to 170 W), based on a rolling 30-year base period updated every 5 years (https://origin. cpc. ncep. noaa. gov/products/analysis_monitoring/ensostuff/ONI_ v5. php/). Moderate and strong El Niño (La Niña) events in this figure are defined as those where the NOAA Oceanic Niño Index is+ 1.2 C or above (− 1.2 C or below) in at least one three-month period during the 12 months from July to June, with weak events being those which do not meet that criterion. Based on data from the World Meteorological Organization.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Evidence for a weakening relationship between interannual temperature variability and northern vegetation activity.  This work is about Satellite-derived Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), a proxy of vegetation productivity, is known to be correlated with temperature in northern ecosystems. This relationship, however, may change over time following alternations in other environmental factors. Here we show that above 30°N, the strength of the relationship between the interannual variability of growing season NDVI and temperature (partial correlation coefficient RNDVI-GT) declined substantially between 1982 and 2011. This decrease in RNDVI-GT is mainly observed in temperate and arctic ecosystems, and is also partly reproduced by process-based ecosystem model results. In the temperate ecosystem, the decrease in RNDVI-GT coincides with an increase in drought. In the arctic ecosystem, it may be related to a nonlinear response of photosynthesis to temperature, increase of hot extreme days and shrub expansion over grass …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Biophysical considerations in forestry for climate protection.  This work is about Forestry – including afforestation (the planting of trees on land where they have not recently existed), reforestation, avoided deforestation, and forest management – can lead to increased sequestration of atmospheric carbon dioxide and has therefore been proposed as a strategy to mitigate climate change. However, forestry also influences land‐surface properties, including albedo (the fraction of incident sunlight reflected back to space), surface roughness, and evapotranspiration, all of which affect the amount and forms of energy transfer to the atmosphere. In some circumstances, these biophysical feedbacks can result in local climate warming, thereby counteracting the effects of carbon sequestration on global mean temperature and reducing or eliminating the net value of climate‐change mitigation projects. Here, we review published and emerging research that suggests ways in which forestry projects can …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Reaching peak emissions.  This work is about Rapid growth in global CO2 emissions from fossil fuels and industry ceased in the past two years, despite continued economic growth. Decreased coal use in China was largely responsible, coupled with slower global growth in petroleum and faster growth in renewables.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global Carbon Budget 2016, Earth Syst. Sci. Data, 8, 605–649.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Resprouting vigour of two Mediterranean shrub species after experimental fire treatments.  This work is about Experimental fire treatments were carried out by applying a propane torch flame to individual stumps ofArbutus unedo andErica arborea, two dominant ericaceous shrubs living in relatively moist maquis of the western Mediterranean Basin. No mortality was observed in either species. Individual plant size, measured as the individual stump area, was the most important factor determining both number and biomass of resprouts for all fire treatments. The number of resprouts at 3 months was less at the higher temperature, but no difference could not be detected at 18 months. Duration of flame application had no effect on resprouting success. This effect was not statistically significant 18 months after treatments were applied. Biomass of resprouts was not clearly affected by different fire treatments either 3 months or 18 months after the start of the resprouting process.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Greenhouse gas implications of land use change and land conversion to biofuel crops.  This work is about Scientific Committee on Problems of the Environment grasslands, as well as by returning fallow or abandoned croplands to production. Indirect LUC can occur when land currently cropped for non-energy production is diverted for biofuel feedstock cultivation. The diverted crops must then be made up for by converting other arable land, usually native systems. Studies have shown that the possible GHG emissions from the induced LUC can substantially influence the climate benefit of biofuels production and use (Leemans et al. 1996; Schlamadinger et al. 2001; Fargione et al. 2008; Searchinger et al. 2008; Gibbs et al. 2008). Recent studies by Fargione et al.(2008) and Gibbs et al.(2008) show that land-use conversion from native land-uses to biofuel crops lead consistently to significant GHG emissions and a negative carbon balance, or carbon-debt, for decades to centuries. The only instances where clearing native habitat for food-based biofuel crops has a payback time of less than ten years is for grasslands converted to sugarcane or oil palm, because these are the lowest carbon ecosystems and the highest yielding crops (Gibbs et al. 2008). Palm is best suited to areas currently containing rainforest, so the scenario of grassland conversion to oil palm is unlikely.Cropland and abandoned cropland are potential sources of land for biofuels. Currently cropped land will have no direct carbon debt, but may have indirect effects, as mentioned above. Abandoned cropland is often suggested as an ideal source of land for biofuel production (Campbell et al. 2008). However, after cropland is abandoned it may accumulate carbon, which typically takes …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Shifting terrestrial feedbacks from CO2 fertilization to global warming.  This work is about Humans are increasingly fertilizing the planet. Our activities are increasing atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, nitrogen inputs to ecosystems and global temperatures. Individually and combined, they lead to biospheric availability of carbon and nitrogen, enhanced metabolic activity, and longer growing seasons. Plants can consequently grow more and take up more carbon that can be stored in ecosystem carbon pools, thus enhancing carbon sinks for atmospheric CO2. Data on the increased strength of carbon sinks are, however, inconclusive: Some data (eddy covariance, short-term experiments on elevated CO2 and nutrient fertilization) suggest that biospheric carbon uptake is already effectively increasing but some other data suggest it is not, or are not general and conclusive (tree-ring, forest inventory). The combined land-ocean CO2 sink flux per unit of excess atmospheric CO2 above preindustrial …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon Sink in the World’s Forests.  This work is about Carbon Sink in the World’s Forests Page 1 A Large and Persistent Carbon Sink in the World’s Forests Yude Pan, Richard Birdsey, Jingyun Fang, Richard Houghton, Pekka Kauppi, Werner A. Kurz, Oliver L. Phillips, Anatoly Shvidenko, Simon L. Lewis, Josep G. Canadell, Philippe Ciais, Robert B. Jackson, Stephen Pacala, A David McGuire, Shilong Piao, Aapo Rautiainen, Stephen Sitch, Daniel Hayes (2011) A Large and Persistent Carbon Sink in the World’s Forests. Science (online Science Express, Thursday 14 July 2011) Page 2 Yude Pan1, Richard A. Birdsey1, Jingyun Fang2,3, Richard Houghton4, Pekka E. Kauppi5, Werner A. Kurz6, Oliver L. Phillips7, Anatoly Shvidenko8, Simon L. Lewis7, Josep G. Canadell9, Philippe Ciais10, Robert B. Jackson11, Stephen Pacala12, A. David McGuire13, Shilong Piao2, Aapo Rautiainen5, Stephen Sitch7, Daniel Hayes14 1. USDA Forest Service, Newtown Square, PA. USA 2…
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Envisioning Earth System Science for Societal Needs-The development of Joint Projects and the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP).  This work is about Envisioning Earth System Science for societal needs Page 1 1 Envisioning Earth System Science for Societal Needs The development of Joint Projects and the Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP) John Ingram, Will Steffen and Pep Canadell The Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP 1 ) was launched at the Amsterdam Conference in 2001 and has brought together the four international global change research Programmes: DIVERSITAS, IGBP, IHDP and WCRP. As a precursor to ESSP (and before DIVERSITAS was re-launched in 2001), IGBP, IHDP and WCRP had already been collaborating more closely by co-sponsoring the design of a number of “Joint Projects”. These were envisioned as new initiatives aimed at helping to frame and develop innovative, interdisciplinary research that addressed issues of interest not only to science but also to society at large. This paper revisits the thinking that led to the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Climate Change Increases the Risk of Wildfires: January 2020.  This work is about We undertook a ScienceBrief Review on the link between climate change and wildfire risk. 57 scientific articles were gathered and evaluated using ScienceBrief. This document synthesises the key points that emerged from the findings. Our review focuses on papers published since the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), with its cut-off date of March 2013. The papers can be viewed on sciencebrief.org/topics/climate-change-science/wildfires. All papers show linkages between climate change and increased frequency or severity of fire weather, though some note anomalies in isolated regions. None of the papers support a widespread decrease in fire risk.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Annual maps of forests in Australia from analyses of microwave and optical images with FAO forest definition.  This work is about The Australian governmental agencies reported a total of 149 million ha forest in the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in 2010, ranking sixth in the world, which is based on a forest definition with . Here, we report a new forest cover data product that used the FAO forest definition ( and at observation time or mature) and was derived from microwave (Phased Array type L-band Synthetic Aperture Radar, PALSAR) and optical (Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer, MODIS) images and validated with very high spatial resolution images, Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) data from the Ice, Cloud, and land Elevation Satellite (ICESat), and in situ field survey sites. The new PALSAR/MODIS forest map estimates 32 million ha of forest in 2010 over Australia. PALSAR/MODIS forest map has an overall accuracy of ~95% based on the reference data derived from visual interpretation of very high spatial resolution images for forest and nonforest cover types. Compared with the canopy height and canopy coverage data derived from ICESat LiDAR strips, PALSAR/MODIS forest map has 73% of forest pixels meeting the FAO forest definition, much higher than the other four widely used forest maps (ranging from 36% to 52%). PALSAR/MODIS forest map also has a reasonable spatial consistency with the forest map from the National Vegetation Information System. This new annual map of forests in Australia could support cross-country comparison when using data from the FAO Forest Resource Assessment Reports.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Carbon Challenge: An IGBPIHDP-WCRP Joint Project.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon sciences for a new world.  This work is about Carbon cycle sciences have evolved from a rather academic activity confined to the specialist quarters of research institutions, to the forefront of policy and public discussions on the causes of climate change and the ways we can achieve stabilization of atmospheric CO 2. This issue of Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability is a great example of how the very same fundamental science that let us gain insights in the functioning of our planet are now informing and constituting building blocks of national and international policy processes to address the challenges of climate change.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Bioenergy: Potentials and limitations.  This work is about In this lecture we explain 1) the biochemical basis for photosynthesis and plant production and 2) the future demands on biomass for human use. Summing all physiological processes, the efficiency of converting solar energy into biomass is < 1.6% in the tropics, and between 0.4 and 0.8% for the temperate regions. In view of the present and future high demand on biomass for food, bioeconomics, fiber, construction material, only a relatively small fraction of plant production will be available for bioenergy. We estimate this fraction to be between 3 and 8% of the global energy demand by 2050. The contribution of bioenergy is at the higher end in tropical regions and in the less industrialized parts of the world, but may even be < 3% in industrialized nations.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Global Carbon Cycle–2.  This work is about The Global Carbon Cycle: Page 1 The Global Carbon Cycle: Four Fundamental Issues Pep Canadell GCP International Project Office CSIRO, Canberra, Australia Page 2 Outline • The GCP reminder • Four fundamental issues: – The global C budget and land use – Saturation – Vulnerability – C Mitigation & Sustainability Page 3 The Global Carbon Project International GeophereBiosphere Program IHDP WCRP World Climate Research Program International Human Dimensions Program IGBP Page 4 Links to other C international efforts Observations IGOS-P (IGCO) Research GCP Assessment IPCC (FCCC) Page 5 GCP Objective To develop comprehensive, policyrelevant understanding of the global carbon cycle, encompassing its natural and human dimensions and their interactions. www.globalcarboproject.org pep.canadell@csiro.au Page 6 GCP Implementation Plan 1. Patterns and Variability 1.1. Enhancing …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global carbon budget 1959–2011, Earth Syst. Sci. Data, 5, 165–185.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Variability and quasi-decadal changes in the methane budget over the period 2000–2012.  This work is about Following the recent Global Carbon Project (GCP) synthesis of the decadal methane (CH4) budget over 2000–2012 (Saunois et al., 2016), we analyse here the same dataset with a focus on quasi-decadal and inter-annual variability in CH4 emissions. The GCP dataset integrates results from top-down studies (exploiting atmospheric observations within an atmospheric inverse-modelling framework) and bottom-up models (including process-based models for estimating land surface emissions and atmospheric chemistry), inventories of anthropogenic emissions, and data-driven approaches. The annual global methane emissions from top-down studies, which by construction match the observed methane growth rate within their uncertainties, all show an increase in total methane emissions over the period 2000–2012, but this increase is not linear over the 13 years. Despite differences between individual studies, the mean emission anomaly of the top-down ensemble shows no significant trend in total methane emissions over the period 2000–2006, during the plateau of atmospheric methane mole fractions, and also over the period 2008–2012, during the renewed atmospheric methane increase. However, the top-down ensemble mean produces an emission shift between 2006 and 2008, leading to 22 [16–32] Tg CH4 yr−1 higher methane emissions over the period 2008–2012 compared to 2002–2006. This emission increase mostly originated from the tropics, with a smaller contribution from mid-latitudes and no significant change from boreal regions. The regional contributions remain uncertain in top-down studies. Tropical South America and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Factoring out natural and indirect human effects on terrestrial carbon sources and sinks.  This work is about The capacity to partition natural, indirect, and direct human-induced effects on terrestrial carbon (C) sources and sinks is necessary to be able to predict future terrestrial C dynamics and thus their influence on atmospheric CO2 growth. However, it will take a number of years before we can better attribute quantitative estimates of the contribution of various C processes to the net C balance. In a policy context, factoring out natural and indirect human-induced effects on C sources and sinks from the direct human-induced influences, is seen as a requirement of a C accounting approach that establishes a clear and unambiguous connection between human activities and the assignment of C credits and debits. We present options for factoring out various groups of influences including climate variability, CO2 and N fertilization, and legacies from forest management. These are: (i) selecting longer accounting or …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon and other biogeochemical cycles. Climate change 2013: the physical science basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Sustainability of terrestrial carbon sequestration: A case study in Duke Forest with inversion approach.  This work is about A sound understanding of the sustainability of terrestrial carbon (C) sequestration is critical for the success of any policies geared toward stabilizing atmospheric greenhouse concentrations. This includes the Kyoto Protocol and/or other greenhouse strategies implemented by individual countries. However, the sustainability of C sinks and pools has not been carefully studied with either empirical or theoretical approaches. This study was intended to develop a conceptual framework to define the sustainability based on C influx and residence time (τ). The latter τ quantifies the capacity for C storage in various plant and soil pools. We estimated τ via inverse analysis of multiple data sets from a Free‐Air CO2 Enrichment (FACE) experiment in Duke Forest, North Carolina, United States. This study suggested that estimated residence times at elevated CO2 decreased for plant C pools and increased for litter and soil pools …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The full climate impacts of nature-based climate solutions must be considered to achieve climate goals.  This work is about Nature-based climate solutions (NBCSs) refer to actions that seek to protect, restore and better manage natural landscapes to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emission or remove CO 2 from the atmosphere. NBCSs are integral part of many countries’ roadmaps to reach net zero GHG emissions by mid century in compliance with the Paris Agreement climate goals. Implementation of NBCSs not only affects cycling of CO 2 and other GHGs in the Earth system, but impacts the energy balance at the Earth’s surface through biophysical effects including changes in reflectivity (albedo), surface roughness and the water cycle, with effects on surface temperature. Furthermore, storage of the sequestered CO 2 in above-ground biomass is often vulnerable to natural and anthropogenic disturbances, with the risk of re-release after a few decades. Yet, frameworks that seek to balance residual GHG emissions with nature-based …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Subterraneous biomass and mineral mass of the holm oak forest at La Castanya, Montseny.  This work is about Root systems from 36 holm oak (Quercus ilex L.) trees were excavated, at La Castanya, Biological Station, Montseny. Allometric equations were developed to estimate below ground biomass at an experimental plot. Because of fine root losses during excavation, 13 soils were used to asses fine root biomass. Thus, of the total tree biomass of 228,1 t/ha, 67,7 t/ha are accounted by root components (29,7 per cent): 32,7 t/ha by roots 5 in diameter, 18,6 t/ha by roots 1 to 5 cm in diameter, and 16,4 t/ha by fine roots (diameter 1 cm). Nutrient relative content of below ground biomass is 27,8 per cent N, 24,2 per cent P, 19,4 per cent Ca, 33,3 per cent K and 32,2 per cent Mg.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Supplementary materials for “Emissions from the oil and gas sectors, coal mining and ruminant farming drive methane growth over the past three decades”.  This work is about Table S1. Summary emission input used for simulating the atmospheric concentrations of CH4 using atmospheric chemistry-transport model (MIROC4-ACTM). The associated isotopic fractionation ratio for the emissions (δ13CE)(Ghosh et al. 2015; Sherwood et al. 2017) and kinetic isotope effect (KIE; k (13CH4)/k (12CH4)) for the losses (ε 13 C
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Removing CO2 from the atmosphere won’t save us: we have to cut emissions now.  This work is about Over 190 countries are negotiating in Paris a global agreement to stabilise climate change at less than 2℃ above pre-industrial global average temperatures.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A novel assessment of the role of land-use and land-cover change in the global carbon cycle, using a new Dynamic Global Vegetation Model version of the CABLE land surface model.  This work is about In recent decades, terrestrial ecosystems have sequestered around 1.2 PgC y-1, an amount equivalent to 20% of fossil-fuel emissions. This land carbon flux is the net result of the impact of changing climate and CO2 on ecosystem productivity (CO2-climate driven land sink) and deforestation, harvest and secondary forest regrowth (the land-use change (LUC) flux). The future trajectory of the land carbon flux is highly dependent upon the contributions of these processes to the net flux. However their contributions are highly uncertain, in part because the CO2-climate driven land sink and LUC components are often estimated independently, when in fact they are coupled. We provide a novel assessment of global land carbon fluxes (1800-2015) that integrates land-use effects with the effects of changing climate and CO2 on ecosystem productivity. For this, we use a new land-use enabled Dynamic Global Vegetation …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: These changes do not affect the conclusions of the article..  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Australasia Carbon Budget for 2010-2019.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Future hotter summer greatly increases residential electricity consumption in Beijing: A study based on different house layouts and shared socioeconomic pathways.  This work is about Emerging studies illustrated that climate change has great impacts on residential electricity consumption, but only a few studies focused on impacts of daily weather and extreme hot days, not to mention considering house layouts. Here, we establish U-shaped response functions between daily outdoor air average temperature and residential electricity intensity (electricity consumption per unit house construction area), based on four house layouts; then we examine how climate change challenges residential electricity consumption in Beijing during the non-heating period under four shared socioeconomic pathways. Small houses are characterized with higher residential electricity intensity, while large houses present stronger marginal effects at high temperature. With present population, housing vacancy rate and house traits, climate change will increase 5%∼7% of residential electricity consumption in near future …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: 15 N levels in current growth leaves in a resprouting Mediterranean shrub.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Acceleration of global N2O emissions seen from two decades of atmospheric inversion.  This work is about Nitrous oxide (N2O) is the third most important long-lived GHG and an important stratospheric ozone depleting substance. Agricultural practices and the use of N-fertilizers have greatly enhanced emissions of N2O. Here, we present estimates of N2O emissions determined from three global atmospheric inversion frameworks during the period 1998–2016. We find that global N2O emissions increased substantially from 2009 and at a faster rate than estimated by the IPCC emission factor approach. The regions of East Asia and South America made the largest contributions to the global increase. From the inversion-based emissions, we estimate a global emission factor of 2.3 ± 0.6%, which is significantly larger than the IPCC Tier-1 default for combined direct and indirect emissions of 1.375%. The larger emission factor and accelerating emission increase found from the inversions suggest that N2O emission may …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Northern Circumpolar Soil Carbon Database: spatially distributed datasets of soil coverage and soil carbon storage in the northern permafrost regions.  This work is about High-latitude terrestrial ecosystems are key components in the global carbon (C) cycle. Estimates of global soil organic carbon (SOC), however, do not include updated estimates of SOC storage in permafrost-affected soils or representation of the unique pedogenic processes that affect these soils. The Northern Circumpolar Soil Carbon Database (NCSCD) was developed to quantify the SOC stocks in the circumpolar permafrost region (18.7 × 106 km2). The NCSCD is a polygon-based digital database compiled from harmonized regional soil classification maps in which data on soil order coverage have been linked to pedon data (n = 1778) from the northern permafrost regions to calculate SOC content and mass. In addition, new gridded datasets at different spatial resolutions have been generated to facilitate research applications using the NCSCD (standard raster formats for use in geographic information systems and Network Common Data Form files common for applications in numerical models). This paper describes the compilation of the NCSCD spatial framework, the soil sampling and soil analytical procedures used to derive SOC content in pedons from North America and Eurasia and the formatting of the digital files that are available online. The potential applications and limitations of the NCSCD in spatial analyses are also discussed. The database has the doi:10.5879/ecds/00000001. An open access data portal with all the described GIS-datasets is available online at: http://www.bbcc.su.se/data/ncscd/.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Fossil CO2 emissions in the post-COVID-19 era.  This work is about Five years after the adoption of the Paris Climate Agreement, growth in global CO2 emissions has begun to falter. The pervasive disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic have radically altered the trajectory of global CO2 emissions. Contradictory effects of the post-COVID-19 investments in fossil fuel-based infrastructure and the recent strengthening of climate targets must be addressed with new policy choices to sustain a decline in global emissions in the post-COVID-19 era.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Future precipitation changes and their implications for tropical peatlands.  This work is about Carbon (C) in tropical peatlands over Southeast Asia and Amazonia, if released to the atmosphere, can substantially increase the growth rate of atmospheric carbon dioxide. Over Southeast Asia, where the most extensive tropical peatlands in the world occur, 11 climate models for the IPCC Fourth Assessment show an overall decrease of rainfall in future dry seasons. Over Amazonia, future rainfall changes in dry seasons are highly uncertain; five models predict increased rainfall, and the remaining models predict the opposite. We have further examined the UKMO‐HadCM3, GISS‐ER, and GFDL‐CM2.1 models. Over Southeast Asia, all three models predict similar decreases of rainfall and evaporative fraction, implying an increase of water table depth and surface dryness during the dry season south of the equator. Such changes would potentially switch peat ecosystems from acting as C sinks to C sources. Over …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Anthropogenic CO 2 emissions in Africa.  This work is about An understanding of the regional contributions and trends of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions is critical to design mitigation strategies aimed at stabilizing atmospheric greenhouse gases. Here we report CO2 emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels and land use change in Africa for various time periods. Africa was responsible for an average of 500 Tg C y−1 for the period 2000–2005. These emissions resulted from the combustion of fossil fuels (260 Tg C y−1) and land use change (240 Tg C y−1). Over this period, the African share of global emissions from land use change was 17%. For 2005, the last year reported in this study, African fossil fuel emissions were 285 Tg C accounting for 3.7% of the global emissions. The 2000–2005 growth rate in African fossil fuel emissions was 3.2% y−1, very close to the global average. Fossil fuel emissions per capita in Africa are among the lowest in the world, at 0.32 t C y−1 compared to the global average of 1.2 t C y−1. The average amount of carbon (C) emitted as CO2 to produce 1 US{$} of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in Africa was 187 g C/$ in 2005, close to the world average of 199 g C/$. With the fastest population growth in the world and rising per capita GDP, Africa is likely to increase its share of global emissions over the coming decades although emissions from Africa will remain low compared to other continents.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Terrestial Ecosystems in a Changing World 7.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The mitigation challenge to stay below two degrees.  This work is about For comparisons between two data points, growth rates are calculated as (x1-x0)/x0 and expressed in percent. For comparisons over more than two data points, we calculate the Average Annual Growth Rates as AAGR= d/dt (lnx)= 1/x dx/dt using a linear regression between lnx and t and report the value in%/yr. The use of the logarithm ensures that the growth rates remain additive in the Kaya Identity.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The declining uptake rate of atmospheric CO2 by land and ocean sinks..  This work is about Through 1959–2012, an airborne fraction (AF) of 44% of total anthropogenic CO2 emissions remained in the atmosphere, with the rest being taken up by land and ocean CO2 sinks. Understanding of this uptake is critical because it greatly alleviates the emissions reductions required for climate mitigation. An observable quantity that re-5 flects sink properties more directly than the AF is the CO2 sink rate (kS), the combined land-ocean CO2 sink flux per unit excess atmospheric CO2 above preindustrial levels. Here we show from observations that kS declined over 1959–2012 by a factor of about 1/3, implying that CO2 sinks increased more slowly than excess CO2. We attribute the decline in kS to four mechanisms: slower-than-exponential CO2 emissions growth 10 (∼ 35% of the trend), volcanic eruptions (∼ 25%), sink responses to climate change (∼ 20%), and nonlinear responses to increasing CO2, mainly oceanic (∼ 20%). The first of these mechanisms is associated purely with extrinsic forcings, and the last two with intrinsic, nonlinear responses of sink processes to changes in climate and atmospheric CO2. Our results indicate that the effects of these intrinsic, nonlinear responses 15 are already detectable in the global carbon cycle. Although continuing future decreases in kS will occur under all plausible CO2 emission scenarios, the rate of decline varies between scenarios in non-intuitive ways because extrinsic and intrinsic mechanisms respond in opposite ways to changes in emissions: extrinsic mechanisms cause kS to decline more strongly with increasing mitigation, while intrinsic mechanisms cause kS 20 to decline more strongly …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon project.  This work is about The Global Carbon Project: Page 1 The Global Carbon Project: Integrating Humans, Climate, and the Natural World Pep Canadell International Project Office CSIRO, Canberra, Australia Page 2 The Programmatic Partnership Carbon-Climate-Human system Page 3 English Oct. 2003 GCP Goal and the Science Framework Russian June 2005 Chinese Nov. 2004 Spanish June 2005 To develop comprehensive, policy-relevant understanding of the global carbon cycle, encompassing its natural and human dimensions and their interactions. Page 4 1.To develop a research framework for integration of the biogeochemical, biophysical and human components of the carbon cycle. The GCP Mandate 2.To facilitate coordination among regional and national carbon programs to improve observation and experimental design, comparability, and exchange of information and tools. 3.To synthesize and integrate components and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Record-high CO2 emissions from boreal fires in 2021.  This work is about Extreme wildfires are becoming more common and increasingly affecting Earth’s climate. Wildfires in boreal forests have attracted much less attention than those in tropical forests, although boreal forests are one of the most extensive biomes on Earth and are experiencing the fastest warming. We used a satellite-based atmospheric inversion system to monitor fire emissions in boreal forests. Wildfires are rapidly expanding into boreal forests with emerging warmer and drier fire seasons. Boreal fires, typically accounting for 10% of global fire carbon dioxide emissions, contributed 23% (0.48 billion metric tons of carbon) in 2021, by far the highest fraction since 2000. 2021 was an abnormal year because North American and Eurasian boreal forests synchronously experienced their greatest water deficit. Increasing numbers of extreme boreal fires and stronger climate–fire feedbacks challenge climate mitigation efforts.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Vulnerabilities of the carbon-climate system: Carbon pools in wetlands/peatlands as positive feedbacks to global warming.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon budget 2007.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Magnitude and uncertainty of nitrous oxide emissions from North America based on bottom‐up and top‐down approaches: Informing future research and national inventories.  This work is about We synthesized N2O emissions over North America using 17 bottom‐up (BU) estimates from 1980–2016 and five top‐down (TD) estimates from 1998 to 2016. The BU‐based total emission shows a slight increase owing to U.S. agriculture, while no consistent trend is shown in TD estimates. During 2007–2016, North American N2O emissions are estimated at 1.7 (1.0–3.0) Tg N yr−1 (BU) and 1.3 (0.9–1.5) Tg N yr−1 (TD). Anthropogenic emissions were twice as large as natural fluxes from soil and water. Direct agricultural and industrial activities accounted for 68% of total anthropogenic emissions, 71% of which was contributed by the U.S. Our estimates of U.S. agricultural emissions are comparable to the EPA greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory, which includes estimates from IPCC tier 1 (emission factor) and tier 3 (process‐based modeling) approaches. Conversely, our estimated agricultural emissions for Canada …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global Carbon Budget 2017, Earth Syst. Sci. Data, 10, 405–448.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Australian terrestrial carbon budget.  This work is about This paper reports a study of the full carbon (C-CO2) budget of the Australian continent, focussing on 1990–2011 in the context of estimates over two centuries. The work is a contribution to the RECCAP (REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes) project, as one of numerous regional studies. In constructing the budget, we estimate the following component carbon fluxes: net primary production (NPP); net ecosystem production (NEP); fire; land use change (LUC); riverine export; dust export; harvest (wood, crop and livestock) and fossil fuel emissions (both territorial and non-territorial). Major biospheric fluxes were derived using BIOS2 (Haverd et al., 2012), a fine-spatial-resolution (0.05°) offline modelling environment in which predictions of CABLE (Wang et al., 2011), a sophisticated land surface model with carbon cycle, are constrained by multiple observation types. The mean NEP reveals that climate variability and rising CO2 contributed 12 ± 24 (1σ error on mean) and 68 ± 15 TgC yr−1, respectively. However these gains were partially offset by fire and LUC (along with other minor fluxes), which caused net losses of 26 ± 4 TgC yr−1 and 18 ± 7 TgC yr−1, respectively. The resultant net biome production (NBP) is 36 ± 29 TgC yr−1, in which the largest contributions to uncertainty are NEP, fire and LUC. This NBP offset fossil fuel emissions (95 ± 6 TgC yr−1) by 38 ± 30%. The interannual variability (IAV) in the Australian carbon budget exceeds Australia's total carbon emissions by fossil fuel combustion and is dominated by IAV in NEP. Territorial fossil fuel emissions are significantly smaller than the rapidly growing fossil fuel exports: in …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global soil nitrous oxide emissions since the preindustrial era estimated by an ensemble of terrestrial biosphere models: Magnitude, attribution, and uncertainty.  This work is about Our understanding and quantification of global soil nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions and the underlying processes remain largely uncertain. Here, we assessed the effects of multiple anthropogenic and natural factors, including nitrogen fertilizer (N) application, atmospheric N deposition, manure N application, land cover change, climate change, and rising atmospheric CO2 concentration, on global soil N2O emissions for the period 1861–2016 using a standard simulation protocol with seven process‐based terrestrial biosphere models. Results suggest global soil N2O emissions have increased from 6.3 ± 1.1 Tg N2O‐N/year in the preindustrial period (the 1860s) to 10.0 ± 2.0 Tg N2O‐N/year in the recent decade (2007–2016). Cropland soil emissions increased from 0.3 Tg N2O‐N/year to 3.3 Tg N2O‐N/year over the same period, accounting for 82% of the total increase. Regionally, China, South Asia, and Southeast …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Simulating the Earth system response to negative emissions.  This work is about Natural carbon sinks currently absorb approximately half of the anthropogenic CO 2 emitted by fossil fuel burning, cement production and land-use change. However, this airborne fraction may change in the future depending on the emissions scenario. An important issue in developing carbon budgets to achieve climate stabilisation targets is the behaviour of natural carbon sinks, particularly under low emissions mitigation scenarios as required to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement. A key requirement for low carbon pathways is to quantify the effectiveness of negative emissions technologies which will be strongly affected by carbon cycle feedbacks. Here we find that Earth system models suggest significant weakening, even potential reversal, of the ocean and land sinks under future low emission scenarios. For the RCP2. 6 concentration pathway, models project land and ocean sinks to weaken to 0.8±0.9 and 1 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The terrestrial biosphere as a net source of greenhouse gases to the atmosphere.  This work is about The terrestrial biosphere can release or absorb the greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O), and therefore has an important role in regulating atmospheric composition and climate. Anthropogenic activities such as land-use change, agriculture and waste management have altered terrestrial biogenic greenhouse gas fluxes, and the resulting increases in methane and nitrous oxide emissions in particular can contribute to climate change,. The terrestrial biogenic fluxes of individual greenhouse gases have been studied extensively,,, but the net biogenic greenhouse gas balance resulting from anthropogenic activities and its effect on the climate system remains uncertain. Here we use bottom-up (inventory, statistical extrapolation of local flux measurements, and process-based modelling) and top-down (atmospheric inversions) approaches to quantify the global net biogenic …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The shared socio-economic pathway (SSP) greenhouse gas concentrations and their extensions to 2500.  This work is about Anthropogenic increases in atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations are the main driver of current and future climate change. The integrated assessment community has quantified anthropogenic emissions for the shared socio-economic pathway (SSP) scenarios, each of which represents a different future socio-economic projection and political environment. Here, we provide the greenhouse gas concentrations for these SSP scenarios – using the reduced-complexity climate–carbon-cycle model MAGICC7.0. We extend historical, observationally based concentration data with SSP concentration projections from 2015 to 2500 for 43 greenhouse gases with monthly and latitudinal resolution. CO2 concentrations by 2100 range from 393 to 1135 ppm for the lowest (SSP1-1.9) and highest (SSP5-8.5) emission scenarios, respectively. We also provide the concentration extensions beyond 2100 based on assumptions regarding the trajectories of fossil fuels and land use change emissions, net negative emissions, and the fraction of non-CO2 emissions. By 2150, CO2 concentrations in the lowest emission scenario are approximately 350 ppm and approximately plateau at that level until 2500, whereas the highest fossil-fuel-driven scenario projects CO2 concentrations of 1737 ppm and reaches concentrations beyond 2000 ppm by 2250. We estimate that the share of CO2 in the total radiative forcing contribution of all considered 43 long-lived greenhouse gases increases from 66 % for the present day to roughly 68 % to 85 % by the time of maximum forcing in the 21st century. For this estimation, we updated simple radiative forcing parameterizations …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Australasian Carbon budget for 2010-2019.  This work is about This study presents a synthesis of the Australasian (Australia and New Zealand) terrestrial carbon budget for the period 2010-2019 to contribute towards the REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes (RECCAP2) project. We use flux estimates based on top-down methods that use regional inversions of atmospheric data and bottom-up approaches that use inventory emissions and terrestrial ecosystem models. Top-down methods include the assimilation of the Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2 (OCO-2)(version 9) data across Australia and atmospheric surface CO2 measurements across New Zealand. Both inversions run independently and use the best available bottom-up flux estimates. Over Australia, the major carbon flux components gross primary productivity, net ecosystem production, and ecosystem respiration are simulated by the Australian Community Land Surface Model (CABLE) in BIOS3 set-up …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Representing Soil Carbon Dynamics in Global Land Models to Improve Future IPCC Assessments.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Overviews of the last release of the Global Methane Budget 2000-2017: what have we learnt about the last 10 years of increasing methane?.  This work is about Atmospheric methane is the second anthropogenic greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide. With a lifetime around 10 years in the atmosphere and a diversity of emission types, methane is an important target for climate change mitigation. Observations of atmospheric methane began in 1978, and now include a large variety of in-situ and remote-sensed observations from the surface or from space. These data are assimilated in atmospheric inversion to infer methane emissions and sinks (top-down approaches). In parallel, a large international effort is conducted to model emitting processes emitting methane at the surface (eg wetland emissions) or destroying methane in the atmosphere (eg OH radicals), but also to compile inventories of anthropogenic emissions (bottom-up approaches).
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Una sociedad descabonizada. Utopia o necesidad?.  This work is about CSIRO Research Publications Repository - Una sociedad descabonizada. Utopia o necesidad? CSIRO Home Research Publications Repository Contact Us Help CSIRO Login Username Password Search Publications Advanced Search Browse Publications Selected Records () Una sociedad descabonizada. Utopia o necesidad? Description Select | OK Print Author: Canadell, JG Date of Publication: 2009 Publication Type: Journal Article Journal Title: La Vanguardia Issue: September Keywords: Marine and Atmospheric Research Identifier: procite:44c965dc-c6e4-41ad-991b-e4ddd3992e79 Attribution Statement: Canadell, JG Una sociedad descabonizada. Utopia o necesidad?. La Vanguardia. 2009; (September): http://hdl.handle.net/102.100.100/112267?index=1 PermaLink http://hdl.handle.net/102.100.100/112267?index=1 Loading citation data... Citation counts (Requires subscription to view) Copyright (c) 2012…
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Vulnerabilidad de los bosques españoles al cambio global: efectos sobre el stock y la capacidad de sumidero de carbono.  This work is about Los bosques, tanto a escala local como global, desempeñan un papel crucial regulando los procesos biogeoquímicos y el clima. A escala planetaria ocupan aproximadamente el 30% de la superficie terrestre, son los responsables de absorber aproximadamente el 25% de las emisiones de carbono (C) de origen antropogénico (Anderegg et al. 2012) y almacenan alrededor del 45% del C terrestre (Bonan 2008). Dada la importancia de los bosques a escala global es necesario comprender qué factores gobiernan los patrones de distribución del stocN y de la capacidad de sumidero de C para entender su papel en el ciclo del C y, en consecuencia, en la provisión de bienes y servicios ecosistémicos.Por una parte, comprender de qué manera la diversidad estructural del bosque y la riqueza de especies puedan afectar la acumulación de C en los bosques (McElhinny et al. 2005, Kueppers & Harte 2005, Lexerød …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: To be Published in Global Change Biology late 2014.  This work is about To be Published in Global Change Biology late 2014 Fire in Australian Savannas: from leaf to landscape Running title: “Fire i Page 1 1 To be Published in Global Change Biology late 2014 1 2 Fire in Australian Savannas: from leaf to landscape 3 Running title: “Fire in Australian Savannas” 4 5 Jason Beringer 1,2 , Lindsay B. Hutley 3 , David Abramson 1 , Stefan K. Arndt 4 , Peter Briggs 5 , 6 Mila Bristow 3 , Josep G. Canadell 5 , Lucas A. Cernusak 6 , Derek Eamus 7 , Bradley J. Evans 13 , 7 Benedikt Fest 4 , Klaus Goergen 8,9,15 , Samantha P. Grover 1,3 , Jorg Hacker 10 , Vanessa Haverd 5 , 8 Kasturi Kanniah 1,11 , Stephen J. Livesley 14 , Amanda Lynch 1,12 , Stefan Maier 3 , Caitlin Moore 1 , 9 Michael Raupach 5 , Jeremy Russell-Smith 3 , Simon Scheiter 16 , Nigel J. Tapper 1 , Petteri 10 Uotila 17 11 12 Affiliations: 13 1 School of Earth and Environment, University of Western Australia, Crawley 6009, WA, 14 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global emissions are down by an unprecedented 7%—but don’t start celebrating just yet.  This work is about Global emissions are down by an unprecedented 7% — but don’t start celebrating just yet — University of East Anglia Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content University of East Anglia Home University of East Anglia Logo Home People Organisations Research output Projects Datasets Prizes Activities Press / Media Impacts Search by expertise, name or affiliation Global emissions are down by an unprecedented 7% — but don’t start celebrating just yet Pep Canadell, Corinne Le Quere, Glen Peters, Matthew Jones, Philippe Ciais, Pierre Friedlingstein, Robbie M. Andrew, Robert B. Jackson School of Environmental Sciences Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research Centre for Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences Research output: Contribution to specialist publication › Article Overview People (1) Original language English Specialist publication The Conversation Publication status Published - 11 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The greenhouse gas budgets of terrestrial ecosystems in East Asia during 2000s and 2010s.  This work is about East Asia, comprised of China, Japan, South and North Korea, and Mongolia, is a region contributing a lot to both current anthropogenic Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and to the plan of achieving carbon neutrality in the middle of this century. Accurate quantification of regional land GHG budgets is the prerequisite for designing land-based mitigation efforts for East Asian countries. Under the framework of REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes, Phase 2 (RECCAP-2), this study provides a synthesis of East Asian land GHG budgets during 2000s and 2010s using both bottom-up (inventory, data-driven modelling and process-based modelling) and top-down (atmospheric inversions) approaches. We found the terrestrial ecosystems of the East Asia is a significant land CO2 sink, mitigating a sizeable proportion of the regional anthropogenic CO2 emission. When accounting the global warming potential …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Rooting depth, water availability, and vegetation cover along an aridity gradient in Patagonia.  This work is about Above-and belowground biomass distribution, isotopic composition of soil and xylem water, and carbon isotope ratios were studied along an aridity gradient in Patagonia (44–45°S). Sites, ranging from those with Nothofagus forest with high annual rainfall (770 mm) to Nothofagus scrub (520 mm), Festuca (290 mm) and Stipa (160 mm) grasslands and into desert vegetation (125 mm), were chosen to test whether rooting depth compensates for low rainfall. Along this gradient, both mean above-and belowground biomass and leaf area index decreased, but average carbon isotope ratios of sun leaves remained constant (at-27‰), indicating no major differences in the ratio of assimilation to stomatal conductance at the time of leaf growth. The depth of the soil horizon that contained 90% of the root biomass was similar for forests and grasslands (about 0.80–0.50 m), but was shallower in the desert (0.30 m). In all …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Sharing a quota on cumulative carbon emissions.  This work is about Any limit on future global warming is associated with a quota on cumulative global CO2 emissions. We translate this global carbon quota to regional and national scales, on a spectrum of sharing principles that extends from continuation of the present distribution of emissions to an equal per-capita distribution of cumulative emissions. A blend of these endpoints emerges as the most viable option. For a carbon quota consistent with a 2 °C warming limit (relative to pre-industrial levels), the necessary long-term mitigation rates are very challenging (typically over 5% per year), both because of strong limits on future emissions from the global carbon quota and also the likely short-term persistence in emissions growth in many regions.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global methane budget 2000–2012, Earth Syst. Sci. Data, 8, 697–751.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Five decades of northern land carbon uptake revealed by the interhemispheric CO2 gradient.  This work is about The global land and ocean carbon sinks have increased proportionally with increasing carbon dioxide emissions during the past decades. It is thought that Northern Hemisphere lands make a dominant contribution to the global land carbon sink–; however, the long-term trend of the northern land sink remains uncertain. Here, using measurements of the interhemispheric gradient of atmospheric carbon dioxide from 1958 to 2016, we show that the northern land sink remained stable between the 1960s and the late 1980s, then increased by 0.5 ± 0.4 petagrams of carbon per year during the 1990s and by 0.6 ± 0.5 petagrams of carbon per year during the 2000s. The increase of the northern land sink in the 1990s accounts for 65% of the increase in the global land carbon flux during that period. The subsequent increase in the 2000s is larger than the increase in the global land carbon flux, suggesting a coincident …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global trends in carbon sinks and their relationships with CO2 and temperature.  This work is about Elevated CO2 concentrations increase photosynthesis and, potentially, net ecosystem production (NEP), meaning a greater CO2 uptake. Climate, nutrients and ecosystem structure, however, influence the effect of increasing CO2. Here we analysed global NEP from MACC-II and Jena CarboScope atmospheric inversions and ten dynamic global vegetation models (TRENDY), using statistical models to attribute the trends in NEP to its potential drivers: CO2, climatic variables and land-use change. We found that an increased CO2 was consistently associated with an increased NEP (1995–2014). Conversely, increased temperatures were negatively associated with NEP. Using the two atmospheric inversions and TRENDY, the estimated global sensitivities for CO2 were 6.0 ± 0.1, 8.1 ± 0.3 and 3.1 ± 0.1 PgC per 100 ppm (~1 °C increase), and −0.5 ± 0.2, −0.9 ± 0.4 and −1.1 ± 0.1 PgC °C−1 for …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A synopsis of land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) under the Kyoto Protocol and Marrakech Accords.  This work is about The complexities inherent in land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) activities have led to contentious and prolonged debates about the merits of their inclusion in the 2008–2012 first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. Yet the inclusion of these activities played a key role in agreement on the general framework of the Kyoto Protocol, and LULUCF will likely continue to play a substantial part in negotiations on national commitments post-2012. The Marrakech Accords dictate which LULUCF activities are to be included under the Kyoto Protocol and provide rules on how they are to be accounted in the first commitment period. However, these rules have limitations and drawbacks that may be avoided in the structure of future commitments beyond 2012. Through adherence to the objectives of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and the incorporation of several …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Are Land‐Use Change Emissions in Southeast Asia Decreasing or Increasing?.  This work is about Southeast Asia is a region known for active land‐use changes (LUC) over the past 60 years; yet, how trends in net CO2 uptake and release resulting from LUC activities (net LUC flux) have changed through past decades remains uncertain. The level of uncertainty in net LUC flux from process‐based models is so high that it cannot be concluded that newer estimates are necessarily more reliable than older ones. Here, we examined net LUC flux estimates of Southeast Asia for the 1980s−2010s from older and newer sets of Dynamic Global Vegetation Model simulations (TRENDY v2 and v7, respectively), and forcing data used for running those simulations, along with two book‐keeping estimates (H&N and BLUE). These estimates yielded two contrasting historical LUC transitions, such that TRENDY v2 and H&N showed a transition from increased emissions from the 1980s to 1990s to declining emissions in the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Land carbon cycle feedbacks.  This work is about THE ARCTIC CONTAINS the largest deposits of organic carbon of any region on Earth. Arctic terrestrial ecosystems play an important role in the global carbon cycle, making large contributions to fluxes of the greenhouse gases carbon dioxide and methane. Both outflows of carbon from and inflows of carbon to Arctic terrestrial ecosystems have been altered as climate has warmed. As warming continues in the future, carbon emissions from Arctic lands are projected to outpace uptake, further adding to global warming.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global ecology, networks, and research synthesis.  This work is about The Earth System, including its terrestrial and marine ecosystems, is being altered as a result of human activities. These global changes have been well-documented (eg, Vitousek et al. 1997; Mooney and Canadell 2001; Steffen et al. 2004). They include changes in the composition of the atmosphere, including increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases; changes in global and regional climate; habitat destruction and land cover change; increases in the amounts of reactive nitrogen compounds in the biosphere; increases in species extinction rates; and increases in the number and impacts of exotic invasive species. The extent and magnitude of human-caused changes has led Nobel laureate Paul Crutzen (2002) to propose that the Earth has entered a new geologic era, the Anthropocene–an era of human domination of the Earth System, in contrast to the previous billions of years of Earth’s history when …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Differences in land-based mitigation estimates reconciled by separating natural and land-use CO2 fluxes at the country level.  This work is about Anthropogenic and natural CO2 fluxes on land constitute substantial CO2 emissions and removals but are usually not well distinguished in national greenhouse gas reporting. Instead, countries frequently combine natural and indirect human-induced CO2 fluxes on managed land in their reports, which diminishes their usefulness for designing policies consistent with climate mitigation targets. Here, we separate natural and land-use-related CO2 fluxes from national reports in eight countries using global models to improve the assessment of attribution of terrestrial CO2 fluxes to direct anthropogenic activities. In most investigated countries, the gap between model-based and report-based CO2 flux estimates is reduced if natural and indirect human-induced CO2 fluxes on managed land are considered. Further examinations show that remaining differences are linked to country-specific discrepancies between model …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Land Use Change and Terrestrial Carbon Cycle in Asia.  This work is about The project has developed around four main activities:(i) one workshop,(ii) two commissioned studies,(iii) the development of a database of scientists working on the topic and associated website, and (iv) the development of two research proposals to be submitted for funding in the near future.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Interactions of the carbon cycle, human activity, and the climate system: a research portfolio.  This work is about There has never been a greater need for delivering timely and policy-relevant information on the magnitude and evolution of the human-disturbed carbon cycle. In this paper, we present the main thematic areas of an ongoing global research agenda and prioritize future needs based on relevance for the evolution of the carbon–climate–human system. These include firstly, the delivery of routine updates of global and regional carbon budgets, including its attribution of variability and trends to underlying drivers; secondly, the assessment of the magnitude of the carbon–climate feedback; and thirdly, the exploration of pathways to climate stabilization and their uncertainties. Underpinning much of this research is the optimal deployment of a global carbon monitoring system that includes biophysical and socio-economic components.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Combating ecosystem collapse from the tropics to the Antarctic.  This work is about Globally, collapse of ecosystems—potentially irreversible change to ecosystem structure, composition and function—imperils biodiversity, human health and well‐being. We examine the current state and recent trajectories of 19 ecosystems, spanning 58° of latitude across 7.7 M km2, from Australia's coral reefs to terrestrial Antarctica. Pressures from global climate change and regional human impacts, occurring as chronic ‘presses’ and/or acute ‘pulses’, drive ecosystem collapse. Ecosystem responses to 5–17 pressures were categorised as four collapse profiles—abrupt, smooth, stepped and fluctuating. The manifestation of widespread ecosystem collapse is a stark warning of the necessity to take action. We present a three‐step assessment and management framework (3As Pathway Awareness, Anticipation and Action) to aid strategic and effective mitigation to alleviate further degradation to help secure our future.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Towards real-time verification of CO2 emissions.  This work is about The Paris Agreement has increased the incentive to verify reported anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions with independent Earth system observations. Reliable verification requires a step change in our understanding of carbon cycle variability.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Three decades of global methane sources and sinks, Nat. Geosci., 6, 813–823.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Research priorities for negative emissions.  This work is about Carbon dioxide removal from the atmosphere (CDR)—also known as' negative emissions'—features prominently in most 2 C scenarios and has been under increased scrutiny by scientists, citizens, and policymakers. Critics argue that'negative emission technologies'(NETs) are insufficiently mature to rely on them for climate stabilization. Some even argue that 2 C is no longer feasible or might have unacceptable social and environmental costs. Nonetheless, the Paris Agreement endorsed an aspirational goal of limiting global warming to even lower levels, arguing that climate impacts—especially for vulnerable nations such as small island states—will be unacceptably severe in a 2 C world. While there are few pathways to 2 C that do not rely on negative emissions, 1.5 C scenarios are barely conceivable without them. Building on previous assessments of NETs, we identify some urgent research needs to provide a …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Warning signs for stabilizing global CO2 emissions.  This work is about Carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions from fossil fuels and industry comprise~ 90% of all CO 2 emissions from human activities. For the last three years, such emissions were stable, despite continuing growth in the global economy. Many positive trends contributed to this unique hiatus, including reduced coal use in China and elsewhere, continuing gains in energy efficiency, and a boom in low-carbon renewables such as wind and solar. However, the temporary hiatus appears to have ended in 2017. For 2017, we project emissions growth of 2.0%(range: 0.8%− 3.0%) from 2016 levels (leap-year adjusted), reaching a record 36.8±2 Gt CO 2. Economic projections suggest further emissions growth in 2018 is likely. Time is running out on our ability to keep global average temperature increases below 2 C and, even more immediately, anything close to 1.5 C.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Commentary: carbon metabolism of the terrestrial biosphere: a multitechnique approach for improved understanding.  This work is about Understanding terrestrial carbon metabolism is critical because terrestrial ecosystems play a major role in the global carbon cycle. Furthermore, humans have severely disrupted the carbon cycle in ways that will alter the climate system and directly affect terrestrial metabolism. Changes in terrestrial metabolism may well be as important an indicator of global change as the changing temperature signal. Improving our understanding of the carbon cycle at various spatial and temporal scales will require the integration of multiple, complementary and independent methods that are used by different research communities. Tools such as air sampling networks, inverse numerical methods, and satellite data (top-down approaches) allow us to study the strength and location of the global- and continental-scale carbon sources and sinks. Bottom-up studies provide estimates of carbon fluxes at finer spatial scales and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Recent reversal in loss of global terrestrial biomass.  This work is about Vegetation change plays a critical role in the Earth’s carbon (C) budget and its associated radiative forcing in response to anthropogenic and natural climate change,,,. Existing global estimates of aboveground biomass carbon (ABC) based on field survey data provide brief snapshots that are mainly limited to forest ecosystems,,,. Here we use an entirely new remote sensing approach to derive global ABC estimates for both forest and non-forest biomes during the past two decades from satellite passive microwave observations. We estimate a global average ABC of 362 PgC over the period 1998–2002, of which 65% is in forests and 17% in savannahs. Over the period 1993–2012, an estimated −0.07 PgC yr−1 ABC was lost globally, mostly resulting from the loss of tropical forests (−0.26 PgC yr−1) and net gains in mixed forests over boreal and temperate regions (+0.13 PgC yr−1) and tropical savannahs and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Limited mitigation potential of forestation under a high emissions scenario: results from multi-model and single model ensembles.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Interactions between CO.  This work is about Efforts to stabilize the atmospheric CO2 concentration take place within a fully coupled Earth system in which there are major interactions between the carbon cycle, the physical climate, and human activities. Hence it is necessary to consider atmospheric CO2 mitigation in the context of the Earth system as a whole, and its long-term sustainability.“Sustainability” and “sustainable development” have been defined in a number of ways. The Brundtland Report (World Commission on Environment and Development 1987) defined sustainable development as “development that meets the needs of the present, without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” In practice, definitions of sustainable development hinge on several key issues: what has to be sustained, what has to be developed, for how long, and with what tradeoffs. It is necessary to consider economic, social, and environmental dimensions and to accommodate the different perspectives of each dimension as well as the interrelations between them. For the purposes of this chapter, we will follow the consensus of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development (1996), which identified the major challenges for global sustainable development as (1) combating poverty;(2) protecting the quality and supply of freshwater resources;(3) combating desertification and drought;(4) combating deforestation;(5) promoting sustainable agriculture and rural development; and (6) conserving biological diversity. To this list may be added the goal of the 1992 UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) of preventing dangerous anthropogenic …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Peatlands and the carbon cycle.  This work is about The EURECO-GFOE 2008 is a joint meeting of the European Ecological Federation (EEF: the umbrella organization of the National Ecological Societies of 12 European countries) and the GFOE. The international conference will also offer the opportunity for numerous EU projects and initiatives (ALARM, ALTER-Net, BIOSCORE, COCONUT, DAISIE, MACIS, ESF, etc.) to present their results to the scientific community.The Congress program will include plenary sessions, panels, concurrent scientific sessions, and posters, with an opportunity for preconference workshops. Invited keynote speakers (eg, Andy Hector, Craig Osenberg, Stefan Scheu, Hannu Ylönen, Sue Milton, Sandra Diaz, etc.) will provide a comprehensive overview and present the latest progress and new challenges in their fields of interest.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Top-down estimates of N2O emissions over the past two decades.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global budgets of nitrous oxide under the Global Carbon Project and the International Nitrogen Initiative.  This work is about The Global Carbon Project (GCP) provides a comprehensive data base on the global sources and sinks of key greenhouse gases and visualizes the results in a transparent manner. Compiling from the most recent scientific studies and adding research where needed, the balances of carbon dioxide [1] and of methane [2] have been made available. With support of the International Nitrogen Initiative (INI), GCP currently addresses the third of the most important anthropogenically emitted greenhouse gases, nitrous oxide (N2O). Numerous previous studies have addressed the sources and sinks of atmospheric N2O. The most important source is its release from soils as a consequence of microbial conversion of reactive nitrogen compounds, with a focus on tropical soils (where high temperature and humidity accelerate the production process) and on soils with a high availability of reactive nitrogen compounds, from eg plant fertilizers [3]. In order to better understand the influencing factors of its formation it seems useful to specifically address soil and vegetation processes by terrestrial biosphere modelling.The Nitrous Oxide Model-Intercomparison Project (NMIP) brings together 10 different terrestrial biosphere models to globally combine and compare results. The underlying concepts of this comparison [4] and detailed outcomes [5] of this exercise have been published. Not only do the ensemble of models provide a detailed overview on spatial and temporal scale of biosphere emissions, differentiated by biome, furthermore a coordinated effort of model simulations allows to single out contributing factors responsible for the emissions. Comparing pre …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Estimates of oceanic nitrous-oxide emissions from global biogeochemistry models.  This work is about Emissions of nitrous-oxide (N 2 O) to the atmosphere have increased over the past century, associated with increases in reactive nitrogen release from fossil fuel combustion and agricultural fertilizer use. Oceanic emissions of N 2 O provide approximately a third of the natural sources to the atmosphere. N 2 O is produced in the ocean during the remineralization of organic matter, and its production and consumption processes display significant sensitivity to local oxygen level. In recent decades, the natural cycle of oceanic N 2 O has been affected by inputs of anthropogenically derived nutrients (via atmospheric deposition and riverine fluxes). The impacts of climate change on the ocean also have implications for marine N 2 O production (eg, via impacts on biological productivity and ocean deoxygenation). The most recent IPCC assessment of the global N 2 O budget (AR5, Ciais et al. 2014) reported a larger …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Vulnerabilities in the earth system associated with land-atmosphere exchanges carbon, water and dust.  This work is about Vulnerabilities in the earth system associated with land-atmosphere exchanges carbon, water and dust Page 1 95 Vulnerabilities in the earth system associated with land-atmosphere exchanges carbon, water and dust Michael R. Raupach (1,2), Josep G. Canadell (2,1) (1) CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research, Canberra, ACT, Australia (2) Global Carbon Project International Project Office, Canberra, ACT, Australia Michael.Raupach@csiro.au Recent syntheses of earth system science [1] and the global carbon cycle [2] have used the concept of vulnerability. One intent of this concept is to identify aspects of global change which have important consequences for identified subsystems such as particular ecosystems or human societies. This talk examines the role of land-atmosphere exchanges in studies of vulnerability of terrestrial systems, particularly those at biophysical margins which are highly sensitive to …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Vulnerability of carbon in permafrost.  This work is about Ecosystem responses that cause carbon loss to the atmosphere in a warming climate could greatly accelerate climate change during this century. Potentially vulnerable carbon pools that currently contain hundreds of billion tons of carbon could be destabilized through global warming and land use change. Some of the most vulnerable pools on land and oceans are: soil carbon in permafrost, soil carbon in high and low-latitude wetlands, biomass-carbon in forests, methane hydrates in the coastal zone, and ocean carbon concentrated by the biological pump. The risk of large losses from these pools is not well known, and is not included in most climate simulations. Preliminary analyses indicate a risk over the coming century that may be larger than 200 ppm of atmospheric CO2, rivaling the expected release from fossil fuel combustion. This proposal will quantify the carbon content of the vulnerable pools in permafrost soils and analyze the risk of large releases of carbon from these pools over this century.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Changing global carbon cycle.  This work is about Full text: The increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide (C02) is the single largest human perturbation on the earth's radiative balance contributing to climate change. Its rate of change reflects the balance between anthropogenic carbon emissions and the dynamics of a number of terrestrial and ocean processes that remove or emit C02. It is the long term evolution of this balance that will determine to large extent the speed and magnitude of the human induced climate change and the mitigation requirements to stabilise atmospheric C02 concentrations at any given level. In this talk, we show new trends in global carbon sources and sinks, with particularly focus on major shifts occurring since 2000 when the growth rate of atmospheric C02 has reached its highest level on record. The acceleration in the C02 growth results from the combination of several changes in properties of the carbon cycle, including: acceleration of anthropogenic carbon emissions; increased carbon intensity of the global economy, and decreased efficiency of natural carbon sinks. We discuss in more detail some of the possible causes of the reduced efficiency of natural carbon sinks on land and oceans, such as the decreased net sink in the Southern Ocean and on terrestrial mid-latitudes due to world-wide occurrence of drought. All these changes reported here characterise a carbon cycle that is generating stronger than expected climate forcing, and sooner than expected.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Supplementary material for: The Global Methane Budget: 2000-2012.  This work is about Supplementary material for: The Global Methane Budget: 2000-2012 Page 1 Supplementary material for: The Global Methane Budget: 2000-2012 Marielle Saunois1, Philippe Bousquet1, Ben Poulter2, Anna Peregon1, Philippe Ciais1, Josep G. Canadell3, Edward J. Dlugokencky4, Giuseppe Etiope5, David Bastviken6, Sander Houweling7,8, Greet Janssens-Maenhout9, Francesco N. Tubiello10, Simona Castaldi11,12, Robert B. Jackson13, Mihai Alexe9, Vivek K. Arora14, David J. Beerling15, Peter Bergamaschi9, Donald R. Blake16, Gordon Brailsford17, Victor Brovkin18, Lori Bruhwiler4, Cyril Crevoisier19, Patrick Crill20, Charles Curry21, Christian Frankenberg22, Nicola Gedney23, Lena Höglund-Isaksson24, Misa Ishizawa25, Akihiko Ito25, Fortunat Joos26, Heon-Sook Kim25, Thomas Kleinen18, Paul Krummel27, Jean- François Lamarque28, Ray Langenfelds27, Robin Locatelli1, Toshinobu Machida25, Shamil …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Belowground consequences of vegetation change and their treatment in models.  This work is about The extent and consequences of global land‐cover and land‐use change are increasingly apparent. One consequence not so apparent is the altered structure of plants belowground. This paper examines such belowground changes, emphasizing the interaction of altered root distributions with other factors and their treatment in models. Shifts of woody and herbaceous vegetation with deforestation, afforestation, and woody plant encroachment typically alter the depth and distribution of plant roots, influencing soil nutrients, the water balance, and net primary productivity (NPP). For example, our analysis of global soil data sets shows that the major plant nutrients C, N, P, and K are more shallowly distributed than are Ca, Mg, and Na, but patterns for each element vary with the dominant vegetation type. After controlling for climate, soil C and N are distributed more deeply in arid shrublands than in arid grasslands, and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon budget 2018.  This work is about Accurate assessment of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere – the “global carbon budget” – is important to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the development of climate policies, and project future climate change. Here we describe data sets and methodology to quantify the five major components of the global carbon budget and their uncertainties. Fossil CO2 emissions (EFF) are based on energy statistics and cement production data, while emissions from land use and land-use change (ELUC), mainly deforestation, are based on land use and land-use change data and bookkeeping models. Atmospheric CO2 concentration is measured directly and its growth rate (GATM) is computed from the annual changes in concentration. The ocean CO2 sink (SOCEAN) and terrestrial CO2 sink (SLAND) are estimated with global process models constrained by observations. The resulting carbon budget imbalance (BIM), the difference between the estimated total emissions and the estimated changes in the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere, is a measure of imperfect data and understanding of the contemporary carbon cycle. All uncertainties are reported as ±1σ. For the last decade available (2008–2017), EFF was 9.4±0.5 GtC yr−1, ELUC 1.5±0.7 GtC yr−1, GATM 4.7±0.02 GtC yr−1, SOCEAN 2.4±0.5 GtC yr−1, and SLAND 3.2±0.8 GtC yr−1, with a budget imbalance BIM of 0.5 GtC yr−1 indicating overestimated emissions and/or underestimated sinks. For the year 2017 alone, the growth in EFF was about 1.6 % and emissions …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Ecosystem physiology responses to global change.  This work is about In this chapter the impact of environmental change on the physiology of ecosystems is assessed, taking into consideration long-term hydrological and biogeochemical feedbacks. The chapter principally examines the environmental factors that are predicted to change in the coming decades to a century: atmospheric CO2, temperature, water availability, N deposition, UV-B and tropospheric ozone. Major emphasis, however, is placed on atmospheric CO2 since there is no controversy that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere has changed substantially since the onset of the industrial revolution and that it will continue to rise into the near future as nations struggle to control their carbon emissions. Various modelling exercises are also presented to show the complex nature of the interactions among multiple global change drivers, which can lead to feedbacks, both positive and negative, on ecosystem responses.Ecosystem physiology is a relatively new field that has arisen from the need to understand and predict how ecosystems will respond to the changing global environment. It is concerned with the interacting physiological processes that determine exchanges of carbon, energy, water and nutrients of whole ecosys-
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Terrestrial ecosystems in a changing world.  This work is about Over 100 authors present 25 contributions on the impacts of global change on terrestrial ecosystems including: key processes of the earth system such as the CO2 fertilization effect, shifts in disturbances and biome distribution, the saturation of the terrestrial carbon sink, and changes in functional biodiversity, ecosystem services such the production of wheat, pest control, and carbon storage in croplands, and sensitive regions in the world threaten by rapid changes in climate and land use such as high latitudes ecosystems, tropical forest in Southeast Asia, and ecosystems dominated by Monsoon climate. The book also explores new research developments on spatial thresholds and nonlinearities, the key role of urban development in global biogeochemical processes, and the integration of natural and social sciences to address complex problems of the human-environment system.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Climate drives global soil carbon sequestration and crop yield changes under conservation agriculture.  This work is about Conservation agriculture has been shown to have multiple benefits for soils, crop yield and the environment, and consequently, no‐till, the central practice of conservation agriculture, has rapidly expanded. However, studies show that the potential for carbon (C) sequestration in no‐till farming sometimes is not realized, let alone the ability to maintain or improve crop yield. Here we present a global analysis of no‐till‐induced changes of soil C and crop yield based on 260 and 1,970 paired studies; respectively. We show that, relative to local conventional tillage, arid regions can benefit the most from conservation agriculture by achieving a win‐win outcome of enhanced C sequestration and increased crop yield. However, more humid regions are more likely to increase SOC only, while some colder regions have yield losses and soil C loss as likely as soil C gains. In addition to site‐specific characteristics and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon and the Anthropocene.  This work is about Life on earth has created vast stores of detrital carbon—the remnants of carbon-based organisms after they have died. These carbon stores range from dead leaves and wood to the fossil carbon in coal, oil and gas. They contain large amounts of usable chemical energy. When the ancestors of modern humans learned to access this energy by mastering fire, they discovered a ‘new trick’ which led to massive evolutionary advantages for the human species. In the technological explosion of the last two centuries, industrial-scale use of energy flows from fossil carbon has not only transformed human societies and ecosystems, but also caused exponentially increasing accumulation of the released carbon in atmospheric, land and ocean carbon reservoirs. These changes have altered the carbon cycle and other cycles of matter and energy in the earth system, leading to the term ‘Anthropocene’ for the current epoch. In …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global potential of biospheric carbon management for climate mitigation.  This work is about Elevated concentrations of atmospheric greenhouse gases (GHGs), particularly carbon dioxide (CO2), have affected the global climate. Land-based biological carbon mitigation strategies are considered an important and viable pathway towards climate stabilization. However, to satisfy the growing demands for food, wood products, energy, climate mitigation and biodiversity conservation—all of which compete for increasingly limited quantities of biomass and land—the deployment of mitigation strategies must be driven by sustainable and integrated land management. If executed accordingly, through avoided emissions and carbon sequestration, biological carbon and bioenergy mitigation could save up to 38 billion tonnes of carbon and 3–8% of estimated energy consumption, respectively, by 2050.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Can we reconcile atmospheric estimates of the Northern terrestrial carbon sink with land-based accounting?.  This work is about We estimate the northern hemisphere (NH) terrestrial carbon sink by comparing four recent atmospheric inversions with land-based C accounting data for six large northern regions. The mean NH terrestrial CO2 sink from the inversion models is 1.7PgCyear−1 over the period 2000–2004. The uncertainty of this estimate is based on the typical individual (1-sigma) precision of one inversion (0.9PgCyear−1) and is consistent with the min–max range of the four inversion mean estimates (0.8PgCyear−1). Inversions agree within their uncertainty for the distribution of the NH sink of CO2 in longitude, with Russia being the largest sink. The land-based accounting estimate of NH carbon sink is 1.7PgCyear−1 for the sum of the six regions studied. The 1-sigma uncertainty of the land-based estimate (0.3PgCyear−1) is smaller than that of atmospheric inversions, but no independent land-based flux estimate is available to …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Engineered biological sinks on land, edited by: Field, CB and Raupach, M., The Global Carbon Cycle.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A comprehensive dataset for global, regional and national greenhouse gas emissions by sector 1970–2019.  This work is about To track progress towards keeping warming well below 2 °C, as agreed upon in the Paris Agreement, comprehensive and reliable information on anthropogenic sources of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) is required. Here we provide a dataset on anthropogenic GHG emissions 1970–2019 with a broad country and sector coverage. We build the dataset from recent releases of the “Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research” (EDGAR) for CO2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion and industry (FFI), CH4 emissions, N2O emissions, and fluorinated gases, and use a well-established fast-track method to extend this dataset from 2018 to 2019. We complement this with data on net CO2 emissions from land use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) from three bookkeeping models. We provide an assessment of the uncertainties in each greenhouse gas at the 90 % confidence interval (5th–95th …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Reply to: Practical constraints on atmospheric methane removal.  This work is about We believe that CH4 removal will eventually be practical and is likely to be deployed for decades to come. Our goal 3 was, and remains, to stimulate research in the neglected field of negative emissions for methane, nitrous oxide and other gases beyond CO2 alone.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Harmonising the land-use flux estimates of global models and national inventories for 2000–2020.  This work is about As the focus of climate policy shifts from pledges to implementation, there is a growing need to track progress on climate change mitigation at the country level, particularly for the land-use sector. Despite new tools and models providing unprecedented monitoring opportunities, striking differences remain in estimations of anthropogenic land-use CO2 fluxes between, on the one hand, the national greenhouse gas inventories (NGHGIs) used to assess compliance with national climate targets under the Paris Agreement and, on the other hand, the Global Carbon Budget and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) assessment reports, both based on global bookkeeping models (BMs). Recent studies have shown that these differences are mainly due to inconsistent definitions of anthropogenic CO2 fluxes in managed forests. Countries assume larger areas of forest to be managed than BMs do, due to a broader definition of managed land in NGHGIs. Additionally, the fraction of the land sink caused by indirect effects of human-induced environmental change (e.g. fertilisation effect on vegetation growth due to increased atmospheric CO2 concentration) on managed lands is treated as non-anthropogenic by BMs but as anthropogenic in most NGHGIs. We implement an approach that adds the CO2 sink caused by environmental change in countries' managed forests (estimated by 16 dynamic global vegetation models, DGVMs) to the land-use fluxes from three BMs. This sum is conceptually more comparable to NGHGIs and is thus expected to be quantitatively more similar. Our analysis uses updated and more comprehensive data from …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Australian terrestrial carbon budget..  This work is about This paper reports a study of the full carbon (C-CO2) budget of the Australian continent, focussing on 1990–2011 in the context of estimates over two centuries. The work is a contribution to the RECCAP (REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes) project, as one of numerous regional studies being synthesised in RECCAP. 5 In constructing the budget, we estimate the following component carbon fluxes: Net Primary Production (NPP); Net Ecosystem Production (NEP); fire; Land Use Change (LUC); riverine export; dust export; harvest (wood, crop and livestock) and fossil fuel emissions (both territorial and non-territorial). The mean NEP reveals that climate variability and rising CO2 contributed 12±29 10 (1σ error on mean) and 68±35 Tg C yr− 1 respectively. However these gains were partially offset by fire and LUC (along with other minor fluxes), which caused net losses of 31±5 Tg C yr− 1 and 18±7 Tg C yr− 1 respectively. The resultant Net Biome Production (NBP) of 31±35 Tg C yr− 1 offset fossil fuel emissions (95±6 Tg C yr− 1) by 32±36%. The interannual variability (IAV) in the Australian carbon budget exceeds Australia’s 15 total carbon emissions by fossil fuel combustion and is dominated by IAV in NEP. Territorial fossil fuel emissions are significantly smaller than the rapidly growing fossil fuel exports: in 2009–2010, Australia exported 2.5 times more carbon in fossil fuels than it emitted by burning fossil fuels.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A large and persistent carbon sink in the World’s forests, 1990–2007.  This work is about EMBARGOED UNTIL 2: 00 PM US ET THURSDAY, 14 JULY 2011/www. sciencexpress. org/14 July 2011/Page 2/10.1126/science. 120160956% of carbon stored in biomass and 32% in soil, while boreal forests have only 20% in biomass and 60% in soil. The average annual change in the C stock of established forests (Table 1) indicates a large uptake of 2.5±0.4 PgC yr–1 for 1990-1999 and a similar uptake of 2.3±0.5 PgC yr–1 for 2000-2007. Adding to those the C uptakes in tropical regrowth forests indicates a persistent global gross forest C sink of 4.0±0.7 PgC yr–1 over the two periods (Tables 1 and 2). Despite the consistency of the global C sink since 1990, our analysis revealed important regional and temporal differences in sink sizes. The C sink in temperate forests increased by 17% in 2000-2007 compared to 1990-1999, in contrast to C uptake in intact tropical forests that decreased by 23%(but non …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Interannual variation of terrestrial carbon cycle: Issues and perspectives.  This work is about With accumulation of carbon cycle observations and model developments over the past decades, exploring interannual variation (IAV) of terrestrial carbon cycle offers the opportunity to better understand climate–carbon cycle relationships. However, despite growing research interest, uncertainties remain on some fundamental issues, such as the contributions of different regions, constituent fluxes and climatic factors to carbon cycle IAV. Here we overviewed the literature on carbon cycle IAV about current understanding of these issues. Observations and models of the carbon cycle unanimously show the dominance of tropical land ecosystems to the signal of global carbon cycle IAV, where tropical semiarid ecosystems contribute as much as the combination of all other tropical ecosystems. Vegetation photosynthesis contributes more than ecosystem respiration to IAV of the global net land carbon flux, but large …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Root biomass of Quercus ilex in a montane Mediterranean forest.  This work is about L'allocation de biomasse vers les racines a été étudiée chez le chêne vert (Quercusilex L.), un feuillu dominant à feuilles persistantes des forêts sclérophylles méditerranéennes. Le système racinaire de 32 chênes verts à tige unique croissant dans des sols minces sur une assise rocheuse peu fissurée fut excavé dans des stations mésique et xérique dans les montagnes de Montseney situées dans le nord-est de l'Espagne. Les ratios racine:tige individuels de biomasse (les racines avec un diamètre <1 cm n'étaient pas incluses) des arbres à tige unique étaient significativement plus élevés dans la station xérique (moyenne de 0,45) que dans la station mésique (moyenne de 0,37) reflétant probablement la moins grande disponibilité en eau et la plus forte disponibilité de lumière dans la station xérique. En conclusion, les chênes verts à tige unique ont un ratio racine:tige plus élevé que la plupart des arbres en forêt …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Variations in atmospheric CO2 growth rates coupled with tropical temperature.  This work is about Previous studies have highlighted the occurrence and intensity of El Niño–Southern Oscillation as important drivers of the interannual variability of the atmospheric CO2 growth rate, but the underlying biogeophysical mechanisms governing such connections remain unclear. Here we show a strong and persistent coupling (r2 ≈ 0.50) between interannual variations of the CO2 growth rate and tropical land–surface air temperature during 1959 to 2011, with a 1 °C tropical temperature anomaly leading to a 3.5 ± 0.6 Petagrams of carbon per year (PgC/y) CO2 growth-rate anomaly on average. Analysis of simulation results from Dynamic Global Vegetation Models suggests that this temperature–CO2 coupling is contributed mainly by the additive responses of heterotrophic respiration (Rh) and net primary production (NPP) to temperature variations in tropical ecosystems. However, we find a weaker and less consistent (r2 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Comment on “The global tree restoration potential”.  This work is about Bastin et al.’s estimate (Reports, 5 July 2019, p. 76) that tree planting for climate change mitigation could sequester 205 gigatonnes of carbon is approximately five times too large. Their analysis inflated soil organic carbon gains, failed to safeguard against warming from trees at high latitudes and elevations, and considered afforestation of savannas, grasslands, and shrublands to be restoration.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global Carbon Budget 2015, Earth Syst. Sci. Data, 7, 349–396.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Nonlinearities, feedbacks and critical thresholds within the Earth's climate system.  This work is about The Earth's climate system is highly nonlinear: inputs and outputs are not proportional, change is often episodic and abrupt, rather than slow and gradual, and multiple equilibria are the norm. While this is widely accepted, there is a relatively poor understanding of the different types of nonlinearities, how they manifest under various conditions, and whether they reflect a climate system driven by astronomical forcings, by internal feedbacks, or by a combination of both. In this paper, after a brief tutorial on the basics of climate nonlinearity, we provide a number of illustrative examples and highlight key mechanisms that give rise to nonlinear behavior, address scale and methodological issues, suggest a robust alternative to prediction that is based on using integrated assessments within the framework of vulnerability studies and, lastly, recommend a number of research priorities and the establishment of …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The terrestrial carbon cycle: implications for the Kyoto Protocol.  This work is about In all, 174 countries have ratified the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which aims at “the stabilization of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at a level that will prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system.” In December 1997, the signatory nations agreed to the Kyoto Protocol, which sets out the first steps toward achieving this goal by reducing fossil fuel emissions and the net emissions from some terrestrial ecosystems in developed countries (known as Annex 1 countries in the protocol).According to the Kyoto Protocol, Annex 1 countries can reduce emissions by limiting fossil fuel consumption or by increasing net carbon sequestration in terrestrial carbon sinks. The inclusion of terrestrial carbon sources and sinks in a legally binding emissions reduction framework is significant (1). However, it creates a number of problems that, if not corrected, will …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; Technical Summary.  This work is about The Working Group I (WGI) contribution to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report (AR6) assess the physical science basis of climate change. As part of that contribution, this Technical Summary (TS) is designed to bridge between the comprehensive assessment of the WGI Chapters and its Summary for Policymakers (SPM). It is primarily built from the Executive Summaries of the individual chapters and atlas and provides a synthesis of key findings based on multiple lines of evidence (e.g., analyses of observations, models, paleoclimate information and understanding of physical, chemical and biological processes and components of the climate system). All the findings and figures here are supported by and traceable to the underlying chapters, with relevant chapter sections indicated in curly brackets.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: GCTE-COST workshop. Litter quality and decomposition under elevated atmospheric CO2, Capri, Italy, 24-27 September 1998..  This work is about Thirteen papers from the GCTE (Global change and Terrestrial Ecosystems)-COST (European Co-operation in the Field of Scientific and Technical Research) workshop are presented in this issue.[Relevant papers are abstracted separately, see Subject index, Conferences].
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Greenhouse gas budgets of South and Southeast Asia.  This work is about ObjectivesThe main goal of this proposal is to compile and synthesize information from multiple sources, essential to understand the role of climate-human systems in the production of greenhouse gas emissions. This will be achieved through cooperation between scientists from South and Southeast Asia, and experts from other parts of the world. Mean estimates of the GHGs balance at the regional level and attribution to flux components will be valuable information for climate policy development in the region, particularly of mitigation policies. Several workshops and personnel visits among the participating institutions are planned for improving exchange of observational data, training on numerical model, and analysis tools.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Balancing greenhouse gas sources and sinks: Inventories, budgets, and climate policy.  This work is about Countries around the world are making ever stronger commitments to address human-induced climate change. The implementation of those commitments and their contributions to reach the Paris Agreement goal of balancing sources and removals of greenhouse gases (GHGs) are dependent on having comprehensive and reliable systems to monitor, report, and verify sources and sinks of GHGs. Both, emission inventories and comprehensive GHG budgets play a key role in characterizing and tracking the human perturbation of global biogeochemical cycles, and assessing the requirements to stabilize the climate system. The chapter covers GHG inventories within the Framework Convention on Climate Change, and shows how the development of comprehensive GHG budgets covering anthropogenic and natural fluxes provides additional and essential information to support climate policy and reach the goals of …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A CROSS BIOME SYNTHESIS OF ECOSYSTEM RESPONSE TO GLOBAL WARMING.  This work is about Greenhouse gas emissions are expected to increase mean global temperature by 2-4 o C in the next 50-100 years. The consequences of this warming for primary ecosystem processes are not yet understood, and have become the focus of an emergent field of ecological research. This proposal seeks support to bring together a multi-disciplinary, international group of scientists to synthesize data from existing temperature manipulation and natural gradient studies to develop a conceptual and mechanistic framework in which to evaluate the effects of elevated temperature, both alone and in combination with other vectors of global change, on terrestrial ecosystems. In addition, we will use this forum to discuss and launch a new GCTE Ecosystem Warming Network, which will have far reaching effects in supporting and promoting future information exchange, technology transfer, and synthesis efforts in ecosystem …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: UPPLEMENT.  This work is about TABLE ES1. Sites worldwide measuring CH4 fluxes using the eddy covariance method. Sites were included based on information contained in regional networks and FLUXNET, information provided directly by the site PI, or obtained from the literature. Start and end dates were derived from information contained in regional networks, provided by site PIs, or estimated from the literature (dates were excluded if reliable information could not be identified from those sources). Biome was based on the classification of Olson et al.(2001) and extracted using site coordinates. Vegetation type was based on the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme (IGBP) definition.* Sites currently included in the database (additional information on these sites provided in Table A1);** sites that will be included in the database in the future based on the results of a survey sent to the FLUXNET community on 20 Jun 2018. As indicated in the main paper, this synthesis activity in an open initiative and all members of the flux community are invited to join the effort.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The latest figures on the global carbon budget indicate.  This work is about The GCP is hosted by CSIRO and is part of an international climate research group generating an annual report that is now considered a primary reference on the human effects on atmospheric CO2 for governments and policy-makers around the world. The findings also indicate that natural carbon sinks, which play an important role in buffering the impact of rising emissions from human activity, have not been able to keep pace with rising CO2 levels. On average only 45% of each year’s emissions remain in the atmosphere. The remaining 55% is absorbed by land and ocean sinks.In their breakdown, the researchers determined that human activities have released 500 Pg of carbon (1 Pg= 1 petagram= 1 billion tonnes= 1015 grams) to the atmosphere in the form of CO2 since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution around 1750. These emissions have led to an increase of 38% in atmospheric CO2, from 280 ppm in 1750 to 387 ppm in 2009, and contributed 63% of all anthropogenic radiative forcing to date. Currently, CO2 emissions are responsible for 80% of the growth of anthropogenic radiative forcing. The total CO2 emission flux from human activities was almost 10 Pg carbon per year (Pg C/year) in 2008, made up of 8.7 Pg C/year from fossil fuel combustion and industrial activities, and the rest from net land use change (LUC). The dominant CO2 emissions contribution from fossil fuels has accelerated in recent years, increasing at an average growth rate of 3.4%/year during the period 2000–2008, compared to 1.1%/year during the 1990s and an average of 2%/year since 1970. This growth rate was above the average of the most …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Inventorying Earth’s land and ocean greenhouse gases.  This work is about A new special collection in AGU journals will present findings from the Second REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes (RECCAP2) study with a decade of data on greenhouse gas growth.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Litter quality and decomposition under elevated atmospheric CO2.  This work is about Litter Quality and Decomposition under Elevated Atmospheric CO2 CNRS Inist Pascal-Francis CNRS Pascal and Francis Bibliographic Databases Simple search Advanced search Search by classification Search by vocabulary My Account Home > Search results Help Export Export Selection : Selected items (1) Format : Permanent link CopyPermanent link Copy http://pascal-francis.inist.fr/vibad/index.php?action=getRecordDetail&idt=314854 Litter Quality and Decomposition under Elevated Atmospheric CO 2 Author CANADELL, Josep (Editor) ; NORBY, Richard (Editor) 3 ; COTRUFO, Francesca (Editor) 1 ; NÖSBERGER, Josef (Editor) 2 Global Change and Terrestrial Ecosystems (GCTE) (Funder/Sponsor) European Co-operation in the Field of Scientific and Technical Research (COST), Europe (Funder/Sponsor) [1] Dipartimento di Scienze Ambientali, Seconda Università di Napoli, via Vivaldi 43, 81100 Caserta, …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: K Climatic Change 65: 391, 2004..  This work is about Arnalds, A., 333Beniston, M., 11Boehm, M., 297Canadell, J., 11Chen, S., 149Claussen, M., 11Cox, P., 11 De Noblet-Ducoudre, N., 11 Desjardins, R., 297, 315 Downing, TE, 73 Dumanski, J., 253, 255 Fischer, G., 125Fu, G., 149Garc| a-Oliva, F., 347 Gerlagh, R., 11, 39Grant, B., 315Hannam, I., 365Held, H., 11Hense, A., 179Junkins, B., 297 Kulshreshtha, S., 297Lal, R., 253, 263, 277 Lempert, R., 1Lemke, R., 315Li, C., 315Li, X., 125Lindwall, W., 297Liu, C., 149Liu, H., 125Luckman, BH, 209 Masera, OR, 347 Morgan, MG, 243 Nakicenovic, N., 1Paeth, H., 179Pielke Sr., RA, 11Prinn, R., 11Rial, JA, 11Reynolds, JF, 11Salas, JD, 11Sarewitz, D., 1 Schlesinger, M., 1 Seinfeld, JH, 251 Shepard, D., 149Smith, WN, 315 Sperling, FN, 103Sun, L., 125 Van Der Zwaan, B., 11, 39 Washington, R., 103 Watson, E., 209 Whittaker, RJ, 103 Ziervogel, G., 73
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon budget 2021.  This work is about Accurate assessment of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere in a changing climate is critical to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the development of climate policies, and project future climate change. Here we describe and synthesize data sets and methodology to quantify the five major components of the global carbon budget and their uncertainties. Fossil CO2 emissions (EFOS) are based on energy statistics and cement production data, while emissions from land-use change (ELUC), mainly deforestation, are based on land-use and land-use change data and bookkeeping models. Atmospheric CO2 concentration is measured directly, and its growth rate (GATM) is computed from the annual changes in concentration. The ocean CO2 sink (SOCEAN) is estimated with global ocean biogeochemistry models and observation-based data-products. The terrestrial CO2 sink (SLAND) is estimated with dynamic global vegetation models. The resulting carbon budget imbalance (BIM), the difference between the estimated total emissions and the estimated changes in the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere, is a measure of imperfect data and understanding of the contemporary carbon cycle. All uncertainties are reported as ±1σ. For the first time, an approach is shown to reconcile the difference in our ELUC estimate with the one from national greenhouse gases inventories, supporting the assessment of collective countries’ climate progress. For the year 2020, EFOS declined by 5.4 % relative to 2019, with fossil emissions at 9.5 ± 0.5 GtC …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Key indicators to track current progress and future ambition of the Paris Agreement.  This work is about Current emission pledges to the Paris Agreement appear insufficient to hold the global average temperature increase to well below 2 °C above pre-industrial levels. Yet, details are missing on how to track progress towards the ‘Paris goal’, inform the five-yearly ‘global stocktake’, and increase the ambition of Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). We develop a nested structure of key indicators to track progress through time. Global emissions, track aggregated progress, country-level decompositions track emerging trends,, that link directly to NDCs, and technology diffusion,, indicates future reductions. We find the recent slowdown in global emissions growth is due to reduced growth in coal use since 2011, primarily in China and secondarily in the United States. The slowdown is projected to continue in 2016, with global CO2 emissions from fossil fuels and industry similar to the 2015 level of 36 GtCO2 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Trends in the sources and sinks of carbon dioxide, Nat. Geosci., 2, 831–836.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Shifting from a fertilization-dominated to a warming-dominated period.  This work is about Carbon dioxide and nitrogen fertilization effects on ecosystem carbon sequestration may slow down in the future because of emerging nutrient constraints, climate change reducing the effect of fertilization, and expanding land use change and land management and disturbances. Further, record high temperatures and droughts are leading to negative impacts on carbon sinks. We suggest that, together, these two phenomena might drive a shift from a period dominated by the positive effects of fertilization to a period characterized by the saturation of the positive effects of fertilization on carbon sinks and the rise of negative impacts of climate change. We discuss the evidence and processes that are likely to be leading to this shift.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Increasing anthropogenic methane emissions arise equally from agricultural and fossil fuel sources.  This work is about 1. MethodsWe use the same data and approaches to estimate CH 4 emissions as in Saunois et al (2020). One approach we use is a top-down (TD) ensemble of 11 inversions using atmospheric CH 4 concentrations to constrain total possible emissions and partition them to primary sources. The TD inversions were constrained by surface observations for the period 2000–2006, and by surface and/or satellite observations in 2017. Prior fluxes, treatment of observations, and optimization configurations varied somewhat across the 11 inversions as described in the supplementary material of Saunois et al (2020). Most of the inversions considered the same OH field, constant over time, attributing changes in methane atmospheric concentrations to altered emissions rather than to atmospheric oxidative capacity. Consequently, the inferred changes in methane emissions would be higher if OH is increasing in the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Recent increases in terrestrial carbon uptake at little cost to the water cycle.  This work is about Quantifying the responses of the coupled carbon and water cycles to current global warming and rising atmospheric CO2 concentration is crucial for predicting and adapting to climate changes. Here we show that terrestrial carbon uptake (i.e. gross primary production) increased significantly from 1982 to 2011 using a combination of ground-based and remotely sensed land and atmospheric observations. Importantly, we find that the terrestrial carbon uptake increase is not accompanied by a proportional increase in water use (i.e. evapotranspiration) but is largely (about 90%) driven by increased carbon uptake per unit of water use, i.e. water use efficiency. The increased water use efficiency is positively related to rising CO2 concentration and increased canopy leaf area index, and negatively influenced by increased vapour pressure deficits. Our findings suggest that rising atmospheric CO2 concentration has caused …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Plant Species Mediate Changes in Soil Microbial N in Response to Elevated CO2.  This work is about The effect of elevated $\mathrm{CO}_2$ on plant—microbial interactions and nitrogen (N) cycling is critical to predicting plant growth responses to elevated $\mathrm{CO}_2$, because plant growth is often N—limited. We investigated whether the effects of elevated $\mathrm{CO}_2$ on plant—microbial N dynamics differed among six annual plant species; three European grasses that have invaded California grasslands, and one grass and two forbs native to California serpentine grassland. Elevated $\mathrm{CO}_2$ altered plant N pools and ${15}\mathrm{NH}_4+$ uptake, but the direction and magnitude of the changes were species dependent. The introduced grasses showed increased plant N pools and ${15}\mathrm{NH}_4+$ uptake, whereas the native species showed smaller increases or even decreases in plant N pools and $15{\mathrm{NH}_4+$ uptake. Under nutrient enrichment, soil microbial N and 1 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Reconciling the bottom-up and top-down estimates of the methane chemical sink using multiple observations.  This work is about The methane chemical sink estimated by atmospheric chemistry models (bottom-up method) is significantly larger than estimates based on methyl chloroform (MCF) inversions (top-down method). The difference is partly attributable to large uncertainties in hydroxyl radical (OH) concentrations simulated by the atmospheric chemistry models used to derive the bottom-up estimates. In this study, we propose a new approach based on OH precursor observations and a chemical box model. This approach contributes to improving the 3D distributions of tropospheric OH radicals obtained from atmospheric chemistry models and reconciling bottom-up and top-down estimates of the chemical loss of atmospheric methane. By constraining simulated OH precursors with observations, the global mean tropospheric column-averaged air-mass-weighted OH concentration ([OH]) is molec. cm (which is molec. cm lower than the original model-simulated global [OH]) and agrees with that obtained by the top-down method based on MCF inversions. With OH constrained by precursor observations, the methane chemical loss is 471–508 Tg yr, averaged from 2000 to 2009. The new adjusted estimate is in the range of the latest top-down estimate of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) (459–516 Tg yr), contrary to the bottom-up estimates that use the original model-simulated OH fields (577–612 Tg yr). The overestimation of global [OH] and methane chemical loss simulated by the atmospheric chemistry models is caused primarily by the models' underestimation of carbon monoxide and total ozone column …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Ecosystem sustainability through strategies of integrated carbon and land-use management.  This work is about Terrestrial ecosystems provide a number of key services to society that are linked to carbon (C) cycle processes, a few of which include contl· olling food and fiber production, basic building materials, energy sources, and soil water holding capacity. Human societies have developed a number of land-use practices to enhance biological C processes and increase the delivery of many ecosystem services. However, some of the modifications have led to unintended degradation of land systems in ways that have reduced the natural capacity of ecosystems to maintain a range of supporting, provisioning, and regulating services.As society strives to sustain key ecosystem services while attempting to meet the challenge of a growing human population and manage for climate change, new and sustainable land-use strategies must play a role. Sustainable management practicesthose that maintain the provision of ecosystem services at or from a location-should be a main component of any land-use strategy if we are to successfully deal with global environmental challenges. Society is now demanding much more from landnse systems to achieve multiple goals. Multiple ecosystems services are being required from these systems-to provide food, environments for maintaining biodiversity, and production of energy products, and for preventing pollutants from entering the air and waterways. Developing land-system practices and policies that consider the longterm dynamics of C cycling among competing ecosystem services will provide a framework to develop more sustainable land management. Recent policy efforts have highlighted the role that land-use …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The terrestrial biosphere and global change implications for natural and managed ecosystems a synthesis of GCTE and related research.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Coronavirus is a ‘sliding doors’ moment. What we do now could change Earth’s trajectory.  This work is about Coronavirus is a ‘sliding doors’ moment. What we do now could change Earth’s trajectory — University of East Anglia Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content University of East Anglia Home University of East Anglia Logo Home People Organisations Research output Projects Datasets Prizes Activities Press / Media Impacts Search by expertise, name or affiliation Coronavirus is a ‘sliding doors’ moment. What we do now could change Earth’s trajectory Pep Canadell, Corinne Le Quere, Felix Creutzig, Glen Peters, Matthew Jones, Pierre Friedlingstein, Robert B. Jackson, Yuli Shan School of Environmental Sciences Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research Centre for Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences Research output: Contribution to specialist publication › Article Overview People (1) Original language English Specialist publication The Conversation Publication status Published - 19 May 2020 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Science Statement on Current Scientific Understanding of the Processes Affecting Terrestrial Carbon Stocks and Human Influences upon Them: Expert Meeting Report.  This work is about Science Statement on Current Scientific Understanding of the Processes Affecting Terrestrial Carbon Stocks and Human Influences upon Them: Expert Meeting Report — The University of Aberdeen Research Portal Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content The University of Aberdeen Research Portal Home The University of Aberdeen Research Portal Logo Help & FAQ Home Profiles Disciplines Research output Research Facilities Datasets Impacts Activities Press / Media Prizes Search by expertise, name or affiliation Science Statement on Current Scientific Understanding of the Processes Affecting Terrestrial Carbon Stocks and Human Influences upon Them: Expert Meeting Report M Apps, P Artaxo, D Barrett, J Canadell, A Cescatti, G Churkina, P Ciais, E Cianciala, P Cox, C Field, M Heimann, E Holland, R Houghton, V Jaramillo, F Joos, D Murdiyarso, D Schimel, M Kanninen, JB Kauffmann, W …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A new version of the CABLE land surface model, incorporating land-use change, woody vegetation demography and a novel optimisation-based approach to plant coordination of photosynthesis.  This work is about CABLE is a land surface model (LSM) that can be applied stand-alone, as well as providing for land surface-atmosphere exchange within the Australian Community Climate and Earth System Simulator (ACCESS). We describe critical new developments that extend the applicability of CABLE for regional and global carbon-climate simulations, accounting for vegetation response to biophysical and anthropogenic forcings. A land-use and land-cover change module, driven by gross land-use transitions and wood harvest area was implemented, tailored to the needs of the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project-6 (CMIP6). Novel aspects include the treatment of secondary woody vegetation, which benefits from a tight coupling between the land-use module and the Population Orders Physiology (POP) module for woody demography and disturbance-mediated landscape heterogeneity. Land-use transitions and harvest associated with secondary forest tiles modify the annually-resolved patch age distribution within secondary-vegetated tiles, in turn affecting biomass accumulation and turnover rates and hence the magnitude of the secondary forest sink. Additionally, we implemented a novel approach to constrain modelled GPP consistent with the Co-ordination Hypothesis, predicted by evolutionary theory, which suggests that electron transport and Rubisco-limited rates adjust seasonally and across biomes to be co-limiting. We show that the default prior assumption - common to CABLE and other LSMs - of a fixed ratio of electron transport to carboxylation capacity is at odds with this hypothesis, and implement an alternative algorithm for dynamic …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Current systematic carbon-cycle observations and the need for implementing a policy-relevant carbon observing system.  This work is about A globally integrated carbon observation and analysis system is needed to improve the fundamental understanding of the global carbon cycle, to improve our ability to project future changes, and to verify the effectiveness of policies aiming to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase carbon sequestration. Building an integrated carbon observation system requires transformational advances from the existing sparse, exploratory framework towards a dense, robust, and sustained system in all components: anthropogenic emissions, the atmosphere, the ocean, and the terrestrial biosphere. The paper is addressed to scientists, policymakers, and funding agencies who need to have a global picture of the current state of the (diverse) carbon observations. We identify the current state of carbon observations, and the needs and notional requirements for a global integrated carbon observation system that can be built in the next decade. A key conclusion is the substantial expansion of the ground-based observation networks required to reach the high spatial resolution for CO2 and CH4 fluxes, and for carbon stocks for addressing policy-relevant objectives, and attributing flux changes to underlying processes in each region. In order to establish flux and stock diagnostics over areas such as the southern oceans, tropical forests, and the Arctic, in situ observations will have to be complemented with remote-sensing measurements. Remote sensing offers the advantage of dense spatial coverage and frequent revisit. A key challenge is to bring remote-sensing measurements to a level of long-term consistency and accuracy so that they can be efficiently …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Persistent fossil fuel growth threatens the Paris Agreement and planetary health.  This work is about Amidst declarations of planetary emergency and reports that the window for limiting climate change to 1.5 C is rapidly closing, global average temperatures and fossil fuel emissions continue to rise. Global fossil CO 2 emissions have grown three years consecutively:+ 1.5% in 2017,+ 2.1% in 2018, and our slower central projection of+ 0.6% in 2019 (range of–0.32% to 1.5%) to 37±2 Gt CO 2 (Friedlingstein et al 2019 Earth Syst. Sci. Data accepted), after a temporary growth hiatus from 2014 to 2016. Economic indicators and trends in global natural gas and oil use suggest a further rise in emissions in 2020 is likely. CO 2 emissions are decreasing slowly in many industrialized regions, including the European Union (preliminary estimate of− 1.7%[–3.4% to+ 0.1%] for 2019,− 0.8%/yr for 2003–2018) and United States (− 1.7%[–3.7% to+ 0.3%] in 2019,− 0.8%/yr for 2003–2018), while emissions continue growing in India …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Special Report on climate change, desertification, land degradation, sustainable land management, food security, and greenhouse gas fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems (SR2).  This work is about This background documentation provides a summary of the available knowledge from previous IPCC reports and other relevant sources to act as a foundation upon which to build discussion at the Expert Scoping Meeting in February 2017 for the IPCC Special Report on “climate change, desertification, land degradation, sustainable land management, food security, and greenhouse gas fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems”. The aim of the background documentation is not to provide a comprehensive exploration of all of these areas, nor to propose outcomes, but to support participants by providing a summary of relevant information before and during the scoping meeting. We review relevant reports and other outputs before providing a final section on key known unknowns and issues arising since AR5, as a means to stimulate discussion.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Underground structures of woody plants in Mediterranean ecosystems of Australia, California, and Chile.  This work is about Interest in the possible evolutionary convergence has been the impetus for comparative studies of how organisms function in mediterranean ecosystems (Cody and Mooney 1978). For plants, stem architecture, seasonal growth patterns, nutrient relationships, and some physiological aspects have been examined to determine if convergence occurs under similar climatic constraints.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Increased water‐use efficiency during the 20th century did not translate into enhanced tree growth.  This work is about Aim The goals of this study are: (1) to determine whether increasing atmospheric CO2 concentrations and changing climate increased intrinsic water use efficiency (iWUE, as detected by changes in Δ13C) over the last four decades; and if it did increase iWUE, whether it led to increased tree growth (as measured by tree‐ring growth); (2) to assess whether CO2 responses are biome dependent due to different environmental conditions, including availability of nutrients and water; and (3) to discuss how the findings of this study can better inform assumptions of CO2 fertilization and climate change effects in biospheric and climate models.Location A global range of sites covering all major forest biome types.Methods The analysis encompassed 47 study sites including boreal, wet temperate, mediterranean, semi‐arid and tropical biomes for which measurements of tree ring Δ13C and growth are available over …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Recent pause in the growth rate of atmospheric CO2 due to enhanced terrestrial carbon uptake.  This work is about Terrestrial ecosystems play a significant role in the global carbon cycle and offset a large fraction of anthropogenic CO2 emissions. The terrestrial carbon sink is increasing, yet the mechanisms responsible for its enhancement, and implications for the growth rate of atmospheric CO2, remain unclear. Here using global carbon budget estimates, ground, atmospheric and satellite observations, and multiple global vegetation models, we report a recent pause in the growth rate of atmospheric CO2, and a decline in the fraction of anthropogenic emissions that remain in the atmosphere, despite increasing anthropogenic emissions. We attribute the observed decline to increases in the terrestrial sink during the past decade, associated with the effects of rising atmospheric CO2 on vegetation and the slowdown in the rate of warming on global respiration. The pause in the atmospheric CO2 growth rate provides further …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Changing Metabolism of Terrestrial Ecosystems under Global Change1.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Global Carbon Project (GCP).  This work is about The Scientific Community: The Framework has been developed through a two-year process of discussion, debate and consultation involving hundreds of scientists around the world. It thus represents a consensus on key questions and research strategies for the next decade of carbon cycle science. The document aims to reflect this consensus for individual researchers and teams seeking to orient their work towards a mutually agreed agenda.International Global Environmental Change Research Programmes: The IGBP, IHDP, WCRP and other partners in the Integrated Global Observing Strategy Partnership (IGOS-P) all have considerable existing and planned research on the carbon cycle that will contribute to this Framework. This document specifies strategies by which integrative carbon cycle research can draw upon, support, enhance and add value to these existing projects.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Geophysical Union..  This work is about We propose and demonstrate a new approach for the simulation of woody ecosystem stand dynamics, demography and disturbance-mediated heterogeneity suitable for continental to global applications and designed for coupling to the terrestrial ecosystem component of any earth system model. The approach is encoded in a model called Populations-Order-Physiology (POP). We demonstrate the behaviour and performance of POP coupled to the Community Atmosphere Biosphere Land Exchange model (CABLE) applied along the Northern Australian Tropical Transect, featuring gradients in rainfall and fire disturbance. The model is able to simultaneously reproduce observation-based estimates of key functional and structural variables along the transect, namely gross primary production, tree foliage projective cover, basal area and maximum tree height. Prospects for the use of POP to address current vegetation …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Emerging research fronts-2010.  This work is about First, it showed that the annual growth rate of CO2 emissions from fossil fuels accelerated since 2000 to well over 3% per year, a large increase above the growth rate in the 1990s (just over 1% per year) and well above the long-term historic growth rate, over two centuries, of just under 2% per year.Second, the paper compared observed growth rates in emissions to scenario predictions made around 2000 in the Special Report on Emissions Scenarios (SRES) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), showing that actual emissions growth rates lie well above average growth rates for all six SRES scenario families.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: El cambio climático ha aumentado el riesgo de incendios, pero aún podemos influir en cómo y dónde se producen.  This work is about El cambio climático ha aumentado el riesgo de incendios, pero aún podemos influir en cómo y dónde se producen — University of East Anglia Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content University of East Anglia Home University of East Anglia Logo Home People Organisations Research output Projects Datasets Prizes Activities Press / Media Impacts Search by expertise, name or affiliation El cambio climático ha aumentado el riesgo de incendios, pero aún podemos influir en cómo y dónde se producen Stefan H. Doerr, Cristina Santín, John Abatzoglou, Matthew Jones, Josep G. Canadell School of Environmental Sciences Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research Research output: Contribution to specialist publication › Article Overview Original language English Specialist publication The Conversation Publication status Published - 5 Jul 2022 Access to Document https://theconversation.com/el-…
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Climate change: wildfire risk has grown nearly everywhere–but we can still influence where and how fires strike.  This work is about Climate change: wildfire risk has grown nearly everywhere – but we can still influence where and how fires strike Page 1 Academic rigour, journalistic flair Search analysis, research, academics… COVID-19 Arts + Culture Business + Economy Cities Education Environment Health Politics + Society Science + Technology Podcasts Stefan Doerr, Author provided Published: June 30, 2022 4.40pm BST Humans have raised CO₂ levels in the atmosphere to 50% above what they were before the industrial revolution. As a result, the world has already warmed by 1.1C over the past century and reports indicate that it could reach 2.7C of warming by the end of this century. Bouts of severe drought, heat and low humidity are becoming more extreme as the climate warms. As climate change makes hot and dry conditions – often termed “fire weather” – more common and severe, vegetation dries out and landscapes become …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: 419 Focusing the metaphor: plant root foraging behaviour.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: TROPICAL FORESTS, CLIMATE CHANGE AND CLIMATE POLICY.  This work is about Tropical deforestation released 1.4 GtC yr-1 (range: 0.9–2.2)(1, 2, 3, 4) throughout the 1990’s, accounting for 17.3%(range: 12.0–28.0)(5, 6) of total annual anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. Without the implementation of policies and measures to slow deforestation, the clearing of tropical forests will likely release an additional 87–130 GtC by 2100 (7), corresponding to the carbon release from more than a decade of global fossil fuel combustion at current rates. Drought-induced tree mortality, logging and fire may double these emissions (8, 9). Despite this, the Kyoto Protocol provides no incentives for reducing emissions from the loss and degradation of tropical forests. In a significant step to address this deficiency, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) recently launched a two-year initiative (10) to assess key technical and scientific issues and “policy approaches and positive incentives” for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries. If successfully negotiated and implemented, this new “L2” policy process could help to preserve one of the largest terrestrial carbon stocks (428 GtC, or 17.2% of total terrestrial carbon)(6), a potentially important carbon sink (up to c. 2 GtC yr-1, or 25% of total annual anthropogenic emissions)(11), a globally important source of biodiversity (14), and a key resource for the livelihoods of millions of people in forest-rich developing countries (15).Two important kinds of evidence underscore the value and timeliness of the L2 policy process. First, it is increasingly clear that deep emissions reductions will be necessary to avoid “dangerous …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Land use change and the terrestrial carbon cycle in Asia (APN2000-2).  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon dioxide emissions continue to grow amidst slowly emerging climate policies.  This work is about A failure to recognize the factors behind continued emissions growth could limit the world’s ability to shift to a pathway consistent with 1.5 °C or 2 °C of global warming. Continued support for low-carbon technologies needs to be combined with policies directed at phasing out the use of fossil fuels.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Elevated CO₂, litter chemistry, and decomposition: a synthesis.  This work is about The results of published and unpublished experiments investigating the impacts of elevated [CO₂] on the chemistry of leaf litter and decomposition of plant tissues are summarized. The data do not support the hypothesis that changes in leaf litter chemistry often associated with growing plants under elevated [CO₂] have an impact on decomposition processes. A meta-analysis of data from naturally senesced leaves in field experiments showed that the nitrogen (N) concentration in leaf litter was 7.1% lower in elevated [CO₂] compared to that in ambient [CO₂]. This statistically significant difference was: (1) usually not significant in individual experiments, (2) much less than that often observed in green leaves, and (3) less in leaves with an N concentration indicative of complete N resorption. Under ideal conditions, the efficiency with which N is resorbed during leaf senescence was found not to be altered by …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Gas hydrates: entrance to a methane age or climate threat?.  This work is about Methane hydrates, ice-like compounds in which methane is held in crystalline cages formed by water molecules, are widespread in areas of permafrost such as the Arctic and in sediments on the continental margins. They are a potentially vast fossil fuel energy source but, at the same time, could be destabilized by changing pressure–temperature conditions due to climate change, potentially leading to strong positive carbon–climate feedbacks. To enhance our understanding of both the vulnerability of and the opportunity provided by methane hydrates, it is necessary (i) to conduct basic research that improves the highly uncertain estimates of hydrate occurrences and their response to changing environmental conditions, and (ii) to integrate the agendas of energy security and climate change which can provide an opportunity for methane hydrates—in particular if combined with carbon capture and storage—to be …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Downward flux of water through roots (ie inverse hydraulic lift) in dry Kalahari sands.  This work is about Downward transport of water in roots, in the following termed “inverse hydraulic lift,” has previously been shown with heat flux techniques. But water flow into deeper soil layers was demonstrated in this study for the first time when investigating several perennial grass species of the Kalahari Desert under field conditions. Deuterium labelling was used to show that water acquired by roots from moist sand in the upper profile was transported through the root system to roots deeper in the profile and released into the dry sand at these depths. Inverse hydraulic lift may serve as an important mechanism to facilitate root growth through the dry soil layers underlaying the upper profile where precipitation penetrates. This may allow roots to reach deep sources of moisture in water-limited ecosystems such as the Kalahari Desert.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Saturation of the terrestrial carbon sink.  This work is about There is strong evidence that the terrestrial biosphere has acted as a net carbon (C) sink over the last two and half decades. Its strength is highly variable year-to-year ranging from 0.3 to 5.0 Pg C yr–1; an amount of significant magnitude compared to the emission of about 7 Pg C yr–1 from fossil fuel burning (Prentice et al. 2001; Schimel et al. 2001; Sabine et al. 2004). Uncertainties associated with C emissions from land-use change are large. On average, the terrestrial C sink is responsible for removing from the atmosphere approximately one third of the CO2 emitted from fossil fuel combustion, thereby slowing the build-up of atmospheric CO2. The ocean sink is of similar magnitude (Sabine et al. 2004). Given the international efforts to stabilize atmospheric CO2 concentration and climate (ie, Kyoto Protocol, C trading markets), the terrestrial C sink can be viewed as a subsidy to our global economy worth trillions of …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Anthropogenic and biophysical contributions to increasing atmospheric CO2 growth rate and airborne fraction.  This work is about We quantify the relative roles of natural and anthropogenic influences on the growth rate of atmospheric CO2 and the CO2 airborne fraction, considering both interdecadal trends and interannual variability. A combined ENSO-Volcanic Index (EVI) relates most (~75%) of the interannual variability in CO2 growth rate to the El-Niño-Southern-Oscillation (ENSO) climate mode and volcanic activity. Analysis of several CO2 data sets with removal of the EVI-correlated component confirms a previous finding of a detectable increasing trend in CO2 airborne fraction (defined using total anthropogenic emissions including fossil fuels and land use change) over the period 1959–2006, at a proportional growth rate 0.24% y−1 with probability ~0.9 of a positive trend. This implies that the atmospheric CO2 growth rate increased slightly faster than total anthropogenic CO2 emissions. To assess the combined roles of the biophysical and anthropogenic drivers of atmospheric CO2 growth, the increase in the CO2 growth rate (1.9% y−1 over 1959–2006) is expressed as the sum of the growth rates of four global driving factors: population (contributing +1.7% y−1); per capita income (+1.8% y−1); the total carbon intensity of the global economy (−1.7% y−1); and airborne fraction (averaging +0.2% y−1 with strong interannual variability). The first three of these factors, the anthropogenic drivers, have therefore dominated the last, biophysical driver as contributors to accelerating CO2 growth. Together, the recent (post-2000) increase in growth of per capita income and decline in the negative growth (improvement) in the carbon intensity of the economy will drive a significant …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Fossil fuel emissions hit record high after unexpected growth: Global Carbon Budget 2017.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Effect on the Biosphere of Elevated Atmospheric [CO. sub. 2].  This work is about The report" Net primary production of a forest ecosystem with experimental [CO. sub. 2] by enrichment" by EH DeLucia et al.(14 May, p. 1177) provides excellent and much-needed experimental work on the responses of the terrestrial biosphere to elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide ([CO. sub. 2]). However, we are concerned about the report's last statement (also appearing in the abstract), which extrapolates measurements of net primary production (NPP) from this one experiment to the world's forests as a whole, suggesting that they could absorb as much as 50% of the projected fossil fuel emissions of [CO. sub. 2] in 2050. This projection gives a misleading, perhaps erroneous, picture of the role of the terrestrial biosphere in the global carbon cycle.First, NPP is not the appropriate measurement to apply when considering the net uptake (or release) of [CO. sub. 2] by the terrestrial biosphere on a biome or larger …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Corrigendum to" The Australian Terrestrial Carbon Budget" published in Biogeosciences, 10, 851–869, 2013.  This work is about In the manuscript “The Australian Terrestrial Carbon Budget” by V. Haverd et al.(Biogeosciences, 10, 851–869, 2013) the following error occurred: we counted C-CO2 emissions from clearing fires and from land use change (LUC) as independent fluxes in the Australian C budget. This was incorrect because the LUC emissions also include clearing fire emissions, leading to a double counting in the net carbon balance. We have now excluded clearing fire emissions (23 Tg C yr− 1) from the net fire emissions term and from the net fluxes and changes in stock in Table 1 and Figs. 1 and 2. This results in a new estimate of net biospheric production of 59±35 Tg C yr− 1, which is significantly higher than the original estimate of 36±35 Tg C yr− 1. These changes require revisions to Table 1, Figs. 1 and 2 and to the second key finding in the Summary (Sect. 6) as follows:Net ecosystem productivity is partially offset by LUC …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Water availability, rooting depth, and vegetation zones along an aridity gradient in Patagonia.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: New advances in carbon cycle research.  This work is about The 6th International Carbon Dioxide Conference was held in Sendai, Japan, from 1–5 October 2001.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Trends and drivers of regional sources and sinks of carbon dioxide over the past two decades.  This work is about The land and ocean absorb on average just over half of the anthropogenic emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) every year. These CO2 "sinks" are modulated by climate change and variability. Here we use a suite of nine dynamic global vegetation models (DGVMs) and four ocean biogeochemical general circulation models (OBGCMs) to estimate trends driven by global and regional climate and atmospheric CO2 in land and oceanic CO2 exchanges with the atmosphere over the period 1990–2009, to attribute these trends to underlying processes in the models, and to quantify the uncertainty and level of inter-model agreement. The models were forced with reconstructed climate fields and observed global atmospheric CO2; land use and land cover changes are not included for the DGVMs. Over the period 1990–2009, the DGVMs simulate a mean global land carbon sink of −2.4 ± 0.7 Pg C yr−1 with a small significant trend of −0.06 ± 0.03 Pg C yr−2 (increasing sink). Over the more limited period 1990–2004, the ocean models simulate a mean ocean sink of −2.2 ± 0.2 Pg C yr−1 with a trend in the net C uptake that is indistinguishable from zero (−0.01 ± 0.02 Pg C yr−2). The two ocean models that extended the simulations until 2009 suggest a slightly stronger, but still small, trend of −0.02 ± 0.01 Pg C yr−2. Trends from land and ocean models compare favourably to the land greenness trends from remote sensing, atmospheric inversion results, and the residual land sink required to close the global carbon budget. Trends in the land sink are driven by increasing net primary production (NPP), whose statistically significant trend of 0.22 ± 0.08 Pg C yr−2 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A global dataset of CO2 emissions and ancillary data related to emissions for 343 cities.  This work is about We present a global dataset of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions for 343 cities. The dataset builds upon data from CDP (187 cities, few in developing countries), the Bonn Center for Local Climate Action and Reporting (73 cities, mainly in developing countries), and data collected by Peking University (83 cities in China). The CDP data being self-reported by cities, we applied quality control procedures, documented the type of emissions and reporting method used, and made a correction to separate CO 2 emissions from those of other greenhouse gases. Further, a set of ancillary data that have a direct or potentially indirect impact on CO 2 emissions were collected from other datasets (eg socio-economic and traffic indices) or calculated (climate indices, urban area expansion), then combined with the emission data. We applied several quality controls and validation comparisons with independent …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon budget 2019.  This work is about Accurate assessment of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere – the “global carbon budget” – is important to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the development of climate policies, and project future climate change. Here we describe data sets and methodology to quantify the five major components of the global carbon budget and their uncertainties. Fossil CO2 emissions (EFF) are based on energy statistics and cement production data, while emissions from land use change (ELUC), mainly deforestation, are based on land use and land use change data and bookkeeping models. Atmospheric CO2 concentration is measured directly and its growth rate (GATM) is computed from the annual changes in concentration. The ocean CO2 sink (SOCEAN) and terrestrial CO2 sink (SLAND) are estimated with global process models constrained by observations. The resulting carbon budget imbalance (BIM), the difference between the estimated total emissions and the estimated changes in the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere, is a measure of imperfect data and understanding of the contemporary carbon cycle. All uncertainties are reported as ±1σ. For the last decade available (2009–2018), EFF was 9.5±0.5 GtC yr−1, ELUC 1.5±0.7 GtC yr−1, GATM 4.9±0.02 GtC yr−1 (2.3±0.01 ppm yr−1), SOCEAN 2.5±0.6 GtC yr−1, and SLAND 3.2±0.6 GtC yr−1, with a budget imbalance BIM of 0.4 GtC yr−1 indicating overestimated emissions and/or underestimated sinks. For the year 2018 alone, the growth in EFF was about 2.1 % and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A comprehensive and synthetic dataset for global, regional, and national greenhouse gas emissions by sector 1970–2018 with an extension to 2019.  This work is about To track progress towards keeping global warming well below 2 ∘C or even 1.5 ∘C, as agreed in the Paris Agreement, comprehensive up-to-date and reliable information on anthropogenic emissions and removals of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is required. Here we compile a new synthetic dataset on anthropogenic GHG emissions for 1970–2018 with a fast-track extension to 2019. Our dataset is global in coverage and includes CO2 emissions, CH4 emissions, N2O emissions, as well as those from fluorinated gases (F-gases: HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3) and provides country and sector details. We build this dataset from the version 6 release of the Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research (EDGAR v6) and three bookkeeping models for CO2 emissions from land use, land-use change, and forestry (LULUCF). We assess the uncertainties of global greenhouse gases at the 90 % confidence interval (5th–95th percentile range) by combining statistical analysis and comparisons of global emissions inventories and top-down atmospheric measurements with an expert judgement informed by the relevant scientific literature. We identify important data gaps for F-gas emissions. The agreement between our bottom-up inventory estimates and top-down atmospheric-based emissions estimates is relatively close for some F-gas species (∼ 10 % or less), but estimates can differ by an order of magnitude or more for others. Our aggregated F-gas estimate is about 10 % lower than top-down estimates in recent years. However, emissions from excluded F-gas species such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) or hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) are …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Biophysical and economic limits to negative CO2 emissions.  This work is about To have a> 50% chance of limiting warming below 2 C, most recent scenarios from integrated assessment models (IAMs) require large-scale deployment of negative emissions technologies (NETs). These are technologies that result in the net removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. We quantify potential global impacts of the different NETs on various factors (such as land, greenhouse gas emissions, water, albedo, nutrients and energy) to determine the biophysical limits to, and economic costs of, their widespread application. Resource implications vary between technologies and need to be satisfactorily addressed if NETs are to have a significant role in achieving climate goals.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global methane budget 2000–2017.  This work is about Understanding and quantifying the global methane (CH4) budget is important for assessing realistic pathways to mitigate climate change. Atmospheric emissions and concentrations of CH4 continue to increase, making CH4 the second most important human-influenced greenhouse gas in terms of climate forcing, after carbon dioxide (CO2). The relative importance of CH4 compared to CO2 depends on its shorter atmospheric lifetime, stronger warming potential, and variations in atmospheric growth rate over the past decade, the causes of which are still debated. Two major challenges in reducing uncertainties in the atmospheric growth rate arise from the variety of geographically overlapping CH4 sources and from the destruction of CH4 by short-lived hydroxyl radicals (OH). To address these challenges, we have established a consortium of multidisciplinary scientists under the umbrella of the Global Carbon Project to synthesize and stimulate new research aimed at improving and regularly updating the global methane budget. Following Saunois et al. (2016), we present here the second version of the living review paper dedicated to the decadal methane budget, integrating results of top-down studies (atmospheric observations within an atmospheric inverse-modelling framework) and bottom-up estimates (including process-based models for estimating land surface emissions and atmospheric chemistry, inventories of anthropogenic emissions, and data-driven extrapolations). For the 2008–2017 decade, global methane emissions are estimated by atmospheric inversions (a top-down approach) to be 576 Tg CH4 yr−1 (range 550–594 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Persistent growth of CO2 emissions and implications for reaching climate targets.  This work is about Efforts to limit climate change below a given temperature level require that global emissions of CO2 cumulated over time remain below a limited quota. This quota varies depending on the temperature level, the desired probability of staying below this level and the contributions of other gases. In spite of this restriction, global emissions of CO2 from fossil fuel combustion and cement production have continued to grow by 2.5% per year on average over the past decade. Two thirds of the CO2 emission quota consistent with a 2 °C temperature limit has already been used, and the total quota will likely be exhausted in a further 30 years at the 2014 emissions rates. We show that CO2 emissions track the high end of the latest generation of emissions scenarios, due to lower than anticipated carbon intensity improvements of emerging economies and higher global gross domestic product growth. In the absence of more …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: L'increment de CO2 no ha fet augmentar el creixement dels arbres.  This work is about Durant el segle passat la concentració atmosfèrica de CO2 va augmentar en 50 parts per milió, provocant un increment en l'eficiència en l'ús de l'aigua per part de les diverses espècies d'arbres que viuen en els boscos d'arreu del món. Tanmateix, aquesta major eficiència en l'ús de l'aigua no ha comportat, en general, un major creixement dels arbres arreu del món i, per tant, tampoc un augment de la seva capacitat d'embornal de CO2 com el que s'asumeix en els models de canvi climàtic. Altres factors com el canvi climàtic (especialment la sequera), la limitació de nutrients o l'aclimatació a llarg termini a una elevada concentració de CO2 han impedit que els arbres puguin treure profit dels efectes potencials d'aquest augment de CO2 per poder incrementar el seu creixement.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Integrating multiple top-down and bottom-up approaches to evaluate the tropical land sink response to El-Niño in 2015/16.  This work is about Evaluating the response of the land carbon sink to anomalies in temperature and drought imposed by El-Niño provides insights into the present-day C-cycle and its climate driven variability. Additionally, ENSO affects key regions and processes that are sources of uncertainty in future C-cycle projections; thus, it is worth testing whether process-based models are able to simulate the response to the land C-cycle to ENSO.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Bring the catchment hydrology and carbon science together: a simple ecosystem water use efficiency model.  This work is about Water use efficiency (WUE) defined as carbon uptake per unit of water loss by plants or ecosystems is one of most important functional properties in plant sciences. While theory of WUE is quite advanced at leaf-scale, but quite limited at ecosystem scale because of the complexity of interactions among vegetation, soil and climate. In this study, we developed one simple equation for estimating ecosystem WUE with 2 parameters and 5 variables. Using this simple model, we can explain why ecosystem WUE peaks at about 60N, 20N and tropical region globally. Estimated global ecosystem WUE agrees very well with other independent estimates in both magnitude and spatial variability. We also demonstrated that this model can be used to predict quite accurately the global gross primary production (GPP) when estimates of ecosystem water use are available. We estimated global mean annual GPP as 120.7±10.1 Pg …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A stand-alone demography and landscape structure module for Earth system models.  This work is about We propose and demonstrate a new approach for the simulation of woody ecosystem stand dynamics, demography and disturbance-mediated heterogeneity suitable for continental to global applications and designed for coupling to the terrestrial ecosystem component of any earth system model (Haverd et al., 2013). The approach is encoded in a model called Populations-Order-Physiology (POP). We demonstrate the behaviour and performance of POP coupled to the Community Atmosphere Biosphere Land Exchange model (CABLE) for two contrasting applications:(i) to the Northern Australian Tropical Transect, featuring gradients in savanna vegetation cover, rainfall and fire disturbance and (ii) to a set of globally distributed forest locations coinciding with observations of forest biomass allometry. Along the Northern Australian Tropical Transect, CABLE-POP is able to simultaneously reproduce observation …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: FLUXNET methanesynthesis activity: Objectives, Observations, and Future Directions.  This work is about Atmospheric methane (CH 4) is the second most important anthropogenic greenhouse gas following carbon dioxide (CO 2), and is 84-times more potent than CO 2 over the first 20 years after release. The concentration of CH 4 in the atmosphere today is two-and-a-half-times higher than in 1750 due to human activities in agriculture, energy, and waste disposal, and from changes in natural CH 4 sources and sinks. Uncertainties around global CH 4 sources and sinks remain quite large, and much higher than those for CO 2, with uncertainties from natural sources exceeding those from anthropogenic emissions. In particular, one of the largest sources of uncertainty in the global CH 4 budget is related to emissions from wetlands and inland waters. Wetland CH 4 emissions may contribute as much as 25-40% of the global total and are a leading source of interannual variability in atmospheric CH 4.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Thirty years of methane sources and sinks.  This work is about Methane is the second anthropogenic greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide. Atmospheric methane has contributed about 20% of the climate forcing by long-lived greenhouse gases since pre-industrial times. It also influences the oxidizing capacity of the atmosphere and the production of tropospheric ozone, through its reaction with OH radicals. With a rather short lifetime of 9-10 years in the atmosphere, methane is an interesting target for climate change mitigation. Direct measurements of atmospheric methane began in 1978, reached global coverage after 1983, and now include a large variety of observations: in-situ samples collected regularly at the surface or with aircrafts, continuous measurements at the surface or in the low troposphere with tall towers, remotely-sensed atmospheric columns retrieved from the surface or from space since 2003. Although sources and sinks of methane are identified, large …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Reconciling conflicting estimates of the global methane budget during 1980-2012 using ensemble-based accounting.  This work is about The growth in atmospheric methane (CH 4) concentration, as a net result of the annual global methane budget, has experienced puzzling dynamics over the past 30 years. Current hypotheses for explaining the changes in atmospheric CH 4 growth rates have often shown to be conflicting with each other from the different perspectives of methodologies (eg top-down and bottom-up) and observations (eg CH 4, δ 13 C-CH 4, and ethane). This is mainly due to the large discrepancy in estimates of CH 4 sources between bottom-up and top-down approaches and the uncertainty in the inter-annual variations of hydroxyl radical (OH) chemical methane sink. This challenges the scientific consensus on the drivers of the atmospheric CH 4 growth rate and, more importantly, the possible solutions for managing realistic pathways to mitigate climate change.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Tracking fast-evolving Nitrogen budgets in crop production on a national scale.  This work is about Nitrogen (N) is one of the critical elements for crop growth and consequently for food security. But the rapidly-increasing N load from human activities to the earth system has led to severe environmental impacts, from water and air pollution on local and regional scales to ozone depletion and climate change on a global scale, threatening ecosystems and human health. In some regions, however, not enough N is associated with soil mining and fertility loss. Therefore, it is critical to track N budgets accurately, including inputs and outputs, of crop production systems for the sustainable N management.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global Carbon Budget 2016 (V. 1.0, issued November 216).  This work is about The use of data is conditional on citing the original data sources. Full details on how to cite the data are given at the top of each page. For research projects, if the data are essential to the work, or if an important result or conclusion depends on the data, co-authorship may need to be considered. The Global Carbon Project facilitates access to data to encourage its use and promote a good understanding of the carbon cycle. Respecting original data sources is key to help secure the support of data providers to enhance, maintain and update valuable data.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Australian terrestrial carbon budget: preliminary results.  This work is about In the context of the REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes (RECCAP), we will present preliminary results on the mean and variability of the terrestrial carbon budget of Australia for the period 1990-2009. We will attempt to reconcile a number of bottom-up and top-down flux estimates including:(1) net ecosystem production (with attribution to gross primary production and respiration) using 5 land surface models applied globally and 1 model applied regionally at high resolution (CABLE);(2) Land use change fluxes from the Australian National Carbon Accounting System (NCAS);(3) Fire emissions from the Global Fire Emission Database (GFED); and (4) net carbon fluxes between land and atmosphere as seen by a range of CO2 atmospheric inversions. Model outputs will be ranked by their performance against continental and regional observations and weighted accordingly for model averages.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global Warming and Terrestrial Ecosystems: A Conceptual Framework for Analysis: Ecosystem responses to global warming will be complex and varied. Ecosystem warming experiments hold great potential for providing insights on ways terrestrial ecosystems will respond to upcoming decades of climate change. Documentation of initial conditions provides the context for understanding and predicting ecosystem responses..  This work is about Projections of global warming from General Circulation Models (GCMs) are now familiar to both scientists and nonscientists. Knowing, however, that the mean global temperature will increase by 1.0–3.5 C tells us little about how temperatures will change in a particular location or how the ecosystems in that location will respond. For instance, temperature increases are likely to be greater at higher latitudes (Houghton et al. 1995, 1996), where initial conditions are below 0 C most of the year and growing season temperatures are only a few degrees higher. Even a small increase in average temperature at higher latitudes could increase both the length of the unfrozen period and degree-day accumulations by large percentages (Billings 1987). The implications of a given increase in temperature will also depend on the initial temperature at a specific location because the rate of many biological processes in relation to …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The challenge to keep global warming below 2 C.  This work is about The latest carbon dioxide emissions continue to track the high end of emission scenarios, making it even less likely global warming will stay below 2 °C. A shift to a 2 °C pathway requires immediate significant and sustained global mitigation, with a probable reliance on net negative emissions in the longer term.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon budget 2020.  This work is about Accurate assessment of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere in a changing climate – the “global carbon budget” – is important to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the development of climate policies, and project future climate change. Here we describe and synthesize data sets and methodology to quantify the five major components of the global carbon budget and their uncertainties. Fossil CO2 emissions (EFOS) are based on energy statistics and cement production data, while emissions from land-use change (ELUC), mainly deforestation, are based on land use and land-use change data and bookkeeping models. Atmospheric CO2 concentration is measured directly and its growth rate (GATM) is computed from the annual changes in concentration. The ocean CO2 sink (SOCEAN) and terrestrial CO2 sink (SLAND) are estimated with global process models constrained by observations. The resulting carbon budget imbalance (BIM), the difference between the estimated total emissions and the estimated changes in the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere, is a measure of imperfect data and understanding of the contemporary carbon cycle. All uncertainties are reported as ±1σ. For the last decade available (2010–2019), EFOS was 9.6 ± 0.5 GtC yr−1 excluding the cement carbonation sink (9.4 ± 0.5 GtC yr−1 when the cement carbonation sink is included), and ELUC was 1.6 ± 0.7 GtC yr−1. For the same decade, GATM was 5.1 ± 0.02 GtC yr−1 (2.4 ± 0.01 ppm yr−1), SOCEAN 2.5 ± 0.6 GtC yr−1, and SLAND 3.4 ± 0.9 GtC yr−1, with …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Empirical estimates of regional carbon budgets imply reduced global soil heterotrophic respiration.  This work is about Resolving regional carbon budgets is critical for informing land-based mitigation policy. For nine regions covering nearly the whole globe, we collected inventory estimates of carbon-stock changes complemented by satellite estimates of biomass changes where inventory data are missing. The net land–atmospheric carbon exchange (NEE) was calculated by taking the sum of the carbon-stock change and lateral carbon fluxes from crop and wood trade, and riverine-carbon export to the ocean. Summing up NEE from all regions, we obtained a global ‘bottom-up’ NEE for net land anthropogenic CO2 uptake of –2.2 ± 0.6 PgC yr−1 consistent with the independent top-down NEE from the global atmospheric carbon budget during 2000–2009. This estimate is so far the most comprehensive global bottom-up carbon budget accounting, which set up an important milestone for global carbon-cycle studies. By …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon and other biogeochemical cycles.  This work is about This chapter addresses the biogeochemical cycles of carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). The three greenhouse gases (GHGs) have increased in the atmosphere since pre-industrial times, and this increase is the main driving cause of climate change (Chapter 10). CO2, CH4 and N2O altogether amount to 80% of the total radiative forcing from well-mixed GHGs (Chapter 8). The increase of CO2, CH4 and N2O is caused by anthropogenic emissions from the use of fossil fuel as a source of energy and from land use and land use changes, in particular agriculture. The observed change in the atmospheric concentration of CO2, CH4 and N2O results from the dynamic balance between anthropogenic emissions, and the perturbation of natural processes that leads to a partial removal of these gases from the atmosphere. Natural processes are linked to physical conditions, chemical reactions and biological transformations and they respond themselves to perturbed atmospheric composition and climate change. Therefore, the physical climate system and the biogeochemical cycles of CO2, CH4 and N2O are coupled. This chapter addresses the present human-caused perturbation of the biogeochemical cycles of CO2, CH4 and N2O, their variations in the past coupled to climate variations and their projected evolution during this century under future scenarios.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Anthropogenic‐driven rapid shifts in tree distribution lead to increased dominance of broadleaf species.  This work is about Over the past century, major shifts in the geographic distribution of tree species have occurred in response to changes in land use and climate. We analyse species distribution and abundance from about 33 000 forest inventory plots in Spain sampled twice over a period of 10–12 years. We show a dominance of range contraction (extinction), and demographic decline over range expansion (colonization), with seven of 11 species exhibiting extinction downhill of their distribution. Contrary to expectations, these dynamics are not always consistent with climate warming over the study period, but result from legacies in forest structure due to past land use change and fire occurrence. We find that these changes have led to the expansion of broadleaf species (i.e. family Fagaceae) over areas formerly dominated by conifer species (i.e. family Pinaceae), due to the greater capacity of the former to respond to most …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Atmospheric deposition, CO2, and change in the land carbon sink.  This work is about Concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) have continued to increase whereas atmospheric deposition of sulphur and nitrogen has declined in Europe and the USA during recent decades. Using time series of flux observations from 23 forests distributed throughout Europe and the USA, and generalised mixed models, we found that forest-level net ecosystem production and gross primary production have increased by 1% annually from 1995 to 2011. Statistical models indicated that increasing atmospheric CO2 was the most important factor driving the increasing strength of carbon sinks in these forests. We also found that the reduction of sulphur deposition in Europe and the USA lead to higher recovery in ecosystem respiration than in gross primary production, thus limiting the increase of carbon sequestration. By contrast, trends in climate and nitrogen deposition did not significantly contribute to …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global patterns of daily CO2 emissions reductions in the first year of COVID-19.  This work is about Day-to-day changes in CO2 emissions from human activities, in particular fossil-fuel combustion and cement production, reflect a complex balance of influences from seasonality, working days, weather and, most recently, the COVID-19 pandemic. Here, we provide a daily CO2 emissions dataset for the whole year of 2020, calculated from inventory and near-real-time activity data. We find a global reduction of 6.3% (2,232 MtCO2) in CO2 emissions compared with 2019. The drop in daily emissions during the first part of the year resulted from reduced global economic activity due to the pandemic lockdowns, including a large decrease in emissions from the transportation sector. However, daily CO2 emissions gradually recovered towards 2019 levels from late April with the partial reopening of economic activity. Subsequent waves of lockdowns in late 2020 continued to cause smaller CO2 reductions, primarily in …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Earth Syst.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Anthropogenic CO2 emissions in Africa..  This work is about An understanding of the regional contributions and trends of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions is critical to design mitigation strategies aimed at stabilizing atmospheric greenhouse gases. Here we report CO2 emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels and land use change in Africa for various time periods. Africa was responsi-5 ble for an average of 500 TgC y− 1 for the period 2000–2005. These emissions resulted from the combustion of fossil fuels (260 TgC y− 1) and land use change (240 TgC y− 1). Over this period, the African share of global emissions from land use change was 17%. For 2005, the last year reported in this study, African fossil fuel emissions were 285TgC accounting for 3.7% of the global emissions. The 2000–2005 growth rate in 10 African fossil fuel emissions was 3.2% y− 1, very close to the global average. Fossil fuel emissions per capita in Africa are among the lowest in the world, at 0.32 tCy− 1 compared to the global average of 1.2 tC y− 1. The average amount of carbon (C) emitted as CO2 to produce 1 US $ of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in Africa in 2005 was 187gC/$, close to the world average of 199gC/$. With the fastest population growth 15 in the world and rising per capita GDP, Africa is likely to increase its share of global emissions over the coming decades although emissions from Africa will remain low compared to other continents.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A stand‐alone tree demography and landscape structure module for Earth system models.  This work is about We propose and demonstrate a new approach for the simulation of woody ecosystem stand dynamics, demography, and disturbance‐mediated heterogeneity suitable for continental to global applications and designed for coupling to the terrestrial ecosystem component of any earth system model. The approach is encoded in a model called Populations‐Order‐Physiology (POP). We demonstrate the behavior and performance of POP coupled to the Community Atmosphere Biosphere Land Exchange model (CABLE) applied along the Northern Australian Tropical Transect, featuring gradients in rainfall and fire disturbance. The model is able to simultaneously reproduce observation‐based estimates of key functional and structural variables along the transect, namely gross primary production, tree foliage projective cover, basal area, and maximum tree height. Prospects for the use of POP to address current …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: On the role of trend and variability in the hydroxyl radical (OH) in the global methane budget.  This work is about Decadal trends and interannual variations in the hydroxyl radical (OH), while poorly constrained at present, are critical for understanding the observed evolution of atmospheric methane (CH4). Through analyzing the OH fields simulated by the model ensemble of the Chemistry–Climate Model Initiative (CCMI), we find (1) the negative OH anomalies during the El Niño years mainly corresponding to the enhanced carbon monoxide (CO) emissions from biomass burning and (2) a positive OH trend during 1980–2010 dominated by the elevated primary production and the reduced loss of OH due to decreasing CO after 2000. Both two-box model inversions and variational 4D inversions suggest that ignoring the negative anomaly of OH during the El Niño years leads to a large overestimation of the increase in global CH4 emissions by up to 10 ± 3 Tg yr−1 to match the observed CH4 increase over these years. Not accounting for the increasing OH trends given by the CCMI models leads to an underestimation of the CH4 emission increase by 23 ± 9 Tg yr−1 from 1986 to 2010. The variational-inversion-estimated CH4 emissions show that the tropical regions contribute most to the uncertainties related to OH. This study highlights the significant impact of climate and chemical feedbacks related to OH on the top-down estimates of the global CH4 budget.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Quantifying, understanding and managing the carbon cycle in the next decades.  This work is about The human perturbation of the carbon cycle via the release of fossil CO2 and land use change is now well documented and agreed to be the principal cause of climate change. We address three fundamental research areas that require major development if we were to provide policy relevant knowledge for managing the carbon-climate system over the next few decades. The three research areas are: (i) carbon observations and multiple constraint data assimilation; (ii) vulnerability of the carbon-climate system; and (iii) carbon sequestration and sustainable development.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Impact of the 2015/2016 El Niño on the terrestrial carbon cycle constrained by bottom-up and top-down approaches.  This work is about Evaluating the response of the land carbon sink to the anomalies in temperature and drought imposed by El Niño events provides insights into the present-day carbon cycle and its climate-driven variability. It is also a necessary step to build confidence in terrestrial ecosystems models' response to the warming and drying stresses expected in the future over many continents, and particularly in the tropics. Here we present an in-depth analysis of the response of the terrestrial carbon cycle to the 2015/2016 El Niño that imposed extreme warming and dry conditions in the tropics and other sensitive regions. First, we provide a synthesis of the spatio-temporal evolution of anomalies in net land–atmosphere CO2 fluxes estimated by two in situ measurements based on atmospheric inversions and 16 land-surface models (LSMs) from TRENDYv6. Simulated changes in ecosystem productivity, decomposition rates and fire …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A large and persistent carbon sink in the world’s forests.  This work is about The terrestrial carbon sink has been large in recent decades, but its size and location remain uncertain. Using forest inventory data and long-term ecosystem carbon studies, we estimate a total forest sink of 2.4 ± 0.4 petagrams of carbon per year (Pg C year–1) globally for 1990 to 2007. We also estimate a source of 1.3 ± 0.7 Pg C year–1 from tropical land-use change, consisting of a gross tropical deforestation emission of 2.9 ± 0.5 Pg C year–1 partially compensated by a carbon sink in tropical forest regrowth of 1.6 ± 0.5 Pg C year–1. Together, the fluxes comprise a net global forest sink of 1.1 ± 0.8 Pg C year–1, with tropical estimates having the largest uncertainties. Our total forest sink estimate is equivalent in magnitude to the terrestrial sink deduced from fossil fuel emissions and land-use change sources minus ocean and atmospheric sinks.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global Carbon Project. Science framework and Implementation.  This work is about Global Carbon Project. Science framework and Implementation | CiNii Research CiNii 国立 情報学研究所 学術情報ナビゲータ[サイニィ] 論文・データをさがす 大学図書館の本をさがす 日本の 博士論文をさがす English 検索 タイトル 人物/団体名 所属機関 ISSN DOI 期間 ~ 本文リンク 本文 リンクあり データソース JaLC IRDB Crossref DataCite NDL NDL-Digital IDR JDCat NINJAL CiNii Articles CiNii Books CiNii Dissertations RUDA DBpedia Nikkei BP KAKEN Integbio すべて 研究 データ 論文 本 博士論文 プロジェクト [4/18更新]CiNii ArticlesのCiNii Researchへの統合について Global Carbon Project. Science framework and Implementation 被引用文献1件 CANADELL JG 収録刊行物 Earth System Science Partnership (IGBP, IHDP, WCRP, DIVERSITAS) Report No. 1 ; Global Carbon Project Report No. 1 Earth System Science Partnership (IGBP, IHDP, WCRP, DIVERSITAS) Report No. 1 ; Global Carbon Project Report No. 1 2003 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Principles for knowledge co-production in sustainability research.  This work is about Research practice, funding agencies and global science organizations suggest that research aimed at addressing sustainability challenges is most effective when ‘co-produced’ by academics and non-academics. Co-production promises to address the complex nature of contemporary sustainability challenges better than more traditional scientific approaches. But definitions of knowledge co-production are diverse and often contradictory. We propose a set of four general principles that underlie high-quality knowledge co-production for sustainability research. Using these principles, we offer practical guidance on how to engage in meaningful co-productive practices, and how to evaluate their quality and success.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Peatlands and the carbon cycle: from local processes to global implications–a synthesis.  This work is about Peatlands cover only 3% of the Earth's land surface but boreal and subarctic peatlands store about 15–30% of the world's soil carbon (C) as peat. Despite their potential for large positive feedbacks to the climate system through sequestration and emission of greenhouse gases, peatlands are not explicitly included in global climate models and therefore in predictions of future climate change. In April 2007 a symposium was held in Wageningen, the Netherlands, to advance our understanding of peatland C cycling. This paper synthesizes the main findings of the symposium, focusing on (i) small-scale processes, (ii) C fluxes at the landscape scale, and (iii) peatlands in the context of climate change. The main drivers controlling C fluxes are largely scale dependent and most are related to some aspects of hydrology. Despite high spatial and annual variability in Net Ecosystem Exchange (NEE), the differences in cumulative annual NEE are more a function of broad scale geographic location and physical setting than internal factors, suggesting the existence of strong feedbacks. In contrast, trace gas emissions seem mainly controlled by local factors. Key uncertainties remain concerning the existence of perturbation thresholds, the relative strengths of the CO2 and CH4 feedback, the links among peatland surface climate, hydrology, ecosystem structure and function, and trace gas biogeochemistry as well as the similarity of process rates across peatland types and climatic zones. Progress on these research areas can only be realized by stronger co-operation between disciplines that address different spatial and temporal scales.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Lower Land Use Emissions Increased Net Land Carbon Sink During the Slow Warming Period.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: JanWillem Duitmana, b, Marcel Schoutena, b, Angelique P. Groota, Keren S. Borensztajna, Joost B. Daalhuisena, Sandrine Florquinc, Tom van der Polla, b, and C. Arnold Speka.  This work is about Correction for Wang et al., Variations in atmospheric CO2 growth rates coupled with tropical temperature - PMC Back to Top Skip to main content NIH NLM Logo Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Search PMC Full-Text Archive Search Advanced Search User Guide Journal List Proc Natl Acad Sci USA v.110(37); 2013 Sep 10 PMC3773751 Other Formats PubReader PDF (43K) Actions Cite Favorites Share Permalink Copy RESOURCES Similar articles Cited by other articles Links to NCBI Databases Journal List Proc Natl Acad Sci USA v.110(37); 2013 Sep 10 PMC3773751 Logo of pnas Proc Natl Acad Sci US A. 2013 Sep 10; 110(37): 15163. Published online 2013 Aug 20. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1314920110 PMCID: PMC3773751 Correction for Wang et al., Variations in atmospheric CO 2 growth rates coupled with tropical temperature Copyright and License information …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The Global Carbon Cycle: Recent History, Future Projections, and Policy Relevance I.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: State, Trends and the Future of the Carbon Cycle.  This work is about Long-term redistribution of carbon among fossil fuel reserves, the atmosphere, oceans and land largely determines the degree of the human perturbation of the atmosphere and the climate system.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Top-Down Assessment of the Asian Carbon Budget Since the Mid 1990s.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: GCP-CH4 round 3: protocols and first results of atmospheric inversions.  This work is about Atmospheric methane (CH 4) has received a lot of attention in the past ten years because (i) it is the second anthropogenic greenhouse gas after CO 2, responsible for about 20% of the additional radiative forcing due to human activities since the industrial revolution,(ii) its global to regional decadal budgets and their evolution remain largely uncertain and (iii) it offers interesting opportunities for climate change mitigation.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Multidisciplinary Studies of the Global Carbon Cycle: The 9th International Carbon Dioxide Conference; Beijing, China, 3–7 June 2013.  This work is about For several days in May 2013, the atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) mole fraction measured at Mauna Loa, Hawaii, exceeded a landmark value of 400 parts per million. Two weeks later, the 9th International Carbon Dioxide Conference (ICDC9; http://icdc9.org) took place in Beijing. Started by Charles D. Keeling and Hans Oeschger in 1981 and held once every 4 years, the ICDC series has helped to transform carbon cycle research into a multidisciplinary field that encompasses major areas in Earth and environmental sciences, as well as energy and other socioeconomic domains, as evident in the composition of the more than 500 attendees of the meeting.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A Crazy-Sounding Climate Fix.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Rapid growth in CO2 emissions after the 2008–2009 global financial crisis.  This work is about To the Editor—Global carbon dioxide emissions from fossil-fuel combustion and cement production grew 5.9% in 2010, surpassed 9 Pg of carbon (Pg C) for the first time, and more than offset the 1.4% decrease in 2009. The impact of the 2008–2009 global financial crisis (GFC) on emissions has been short-lived owing to strong emissions growth in emerging economies, a return to emissions growth in developed economies, and an increase in the fossil-fuel intensity of the world economy.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Update on CO2 emissions.  This work is about Emissions of CO 2 are the main contributor to anthropogenic climate change. Here we present updated information on their present and near-future estimates. We calculate that global CO 2 emissions from fossil fuel burning decreased by 1.3% in 2009 owing to the global financial and economic crisis that started in 2008; this is half the decrease anticipated a year ago 1. If economic growth proceeds as expected 2, emissions are projected to increase by more than 3% in 2010, approaching the high emissions growth rates that were observed from 2000 to 2008 1, 3, 4. We estimate that recent CO 2 emissions from deforestation and other land-use changes (LUCs) have declined compared with the 1990s, primarily because of reduced rates of deforestation in the tropics 5 and a smaller contribution owing to forest regrowth elsewhere.Fossil fuel CO 2 emissions for the globe are computed from statistics on energy …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The human perturbation of the carbon cycle.  This work is about Canadell, JG; Ciais, P.; Le QuéRé, C.; Dhakal, S.; Raupach, MR The human perturbation of the carbon cycle. Paris, France: UNESCO-UNEP-SCOPE; 2009. Report No.: UNESCO-UNEP-SCOPE Policy Brief. http://hdl. handle. net/102.100. 100/112525? index= 1
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Mediterranean-climate ecosystems.  This work is about In this chapter we will review the current status of biological diversity in the mediterranean-climate regions of the world, making comparisons among them, as well as examining the threats to biological systems now and in the future. Mediterranean-type climates, which are characterized by a predominantly winter rainfall regime, exist in five regions of the world: parts of California, South Africa, Chile, southern Australia, and the Mediterranean basin. Even though all of these regions share broad climatic conditions and contain ecosystems that have similar structures and dynamics (Hobbs et al. 1995), each region has a unique history of human habitation and use. There is a long history of comparative biotic studies among these regions upon which we draw; however, there are no comparisons of the social drivers of land-use change among these areas. Our analyses are therefore less complete than we would like.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Systematic long-term observations of the global carbon cycle.  This work is about Imagine a meeting convened to avert a global financial crisis where none of the finance ministers had access to reliable information on changes in the stock market, national gross domestic product or international trade flows. It is hardly conceivable. Yet the infinitely more existence-threatening planetary social and ecological crisis we refer to as ‘global change’ (comprising the linked issues of biogeochemical, climate, biotic and human system change) is in an analogous situation. Our information on the profound and accelerating changes currently depends to an unacceptable degree on serendipity, individual passion, redirected funding and the largely uncoordinated efforts of a few nations. The thesis of this paper is that navigation of the very narrow ‘safe passages’ that lie ahead requires a comprehensive and systematic approach to Earth observations, supported by a globally coordinated long-term funding …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Ecosystem metabolism and the global carbon cycle.  This work is about At present, we employ a large array of tools and approaches that give us some understanding of the carbon cycle. Each of these provides a piece of the carbon-balance puzzle, but there is no single tool or approach that gives the total spatial and temporal resolution that is needed to understand global and regional carbon dynamics, and the control of those fluxes.As we prepare for an implementation phase of the Kyoto Protocol, agreed by the Parties of the Framework Convention for Climate Change to stabilize the concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO 2), nations will need precise information on the variability of background levels of carbon exchange in their biotic systems, and on how humans are modifying these exchanges. In addition, the high economic value of the terrestrial carbon sink, and its associated uncertainties, places a high priority on understanding current and future controls of the carbon …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Focus on negative emissions.  This work is about Stabilizing climate at temperatures below 2◦ C will require rapid and sustained emission reductions and near-zero or negative emissions before the end of the century (eg Clarke et al 2014, UNFCCC 2015). During the past decade, however, emissions from fossil fuel use and cement production have remained high. Emissions in recent years have been fairly stable at∼ 10 Pg C yr− 1 but are still 60% greater than in 1990 (Le Quéré et al 2016, Jackson et al 2016). Climate stabilization temperature depends on the cumulative emissions since the beginning of the fossil era some two centuries ago. As a way to reconcile current emission trends with the small carbon budgets compatible with 1.5◦ C and 2◦ C average increases in global temperature, one option invoked in integrated assessment models (IAMs) and, increasingly, in policy circles is negative emissions (NEs)(eg Royal Society 2009, Tavoni and Socolow 2013, McLaren 2013, NRC 2015, Smith et al 2016). A NE technology results in the net removal of CO2 from the atmosphere (also sometimes referred to as carbon dioxide removal, CDR). Examples of the most commonly proposed negative emission technologies (NETs) include biomass energy with carbon capture and sequestration (BECCS), afforestation, and industrial direct air capture (DAC).Current 1.5◦ C scenarios all feature rapid deployment of NETs, and most scenarios limiting global warming to 2◦ C rely on NETs, as well (Rogelj et al 2015). Relatively little is known, however, about the global potential of emerging and future NETs, the sustainability and cost of large-scale deployment needed to meet ‘safe’climate stabilization targets …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Australia’s Black Summer of fire was not normal—and we can prove it.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Recent changes in global photosynthesis and terrestrial ecosystem respiration constrained from multiple observations.  This work is about To assess global carbon cycle variability, we decompose the net land carbon sink into the sum of gross primary productivity (GPP), terrestrial ecosystem respiration (TER), and fire emissions and apply a Bayesian framework to constrain these fluxes between 1980 and 2014. The constrained GPP and TER fluxes show an increasing trend of only half of the prior trend simulated by models. From the optimization, we infer that TER increased in parallel with GPP from 1980 to 1990, but then stalled during the cooler periods, in 1990–1994 coincident with the Pinatubo eruption, and during the recent warming hiatus period. After each of these TER stalling periods, TER is found to increase faster than GPP, explaining a relative reduction of the net land sink. These results shed light on decadal variations of GPP and TER and suggest that they exhibit different responses to temperature anomalies over the last 35 years.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Climate change increases the risk of wildfires: September 2020.  This work is about We undertook a ScienceBrief Review on the link between climate change and wildfire risk in January 2020, reviewing 57 scientific articles. 116 scientific articles are now available. This update focusses on articles relevant to the wildfires ongoing in the western United States, new findings relevant to the wildfires that raged southeastern Australian during the 2019-2020 season, and new findings since January 2020.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Spatial patterns and predictors of forest carbon stocks in Western Mediterranean.  This work is about Mediterranean semi-arid forest ecosystems are especially sensitive to external forcing. An understanding of the relationship between forest carbon (C) stock, and environmental conditions and forest structure enable prediction of the impacts of climate change on C stocks and help to define management strategies that maximize the value of forests for C mitigation. Based on the national forest inventory of Spain (1997–2008 with 70,912 plots), we estimated the forest C stock and spatial variability in Peninsular Spain and, we determined the extent to which the observed patterns of stand C stock can be explained by structural and species richness, climate and disturbances. Spain has an average stand C stock of 45.1 Mg C/ha. Total C stock in living biomass is 621 Tg C (7.8% of the C stock of European forests). The statistical models show that structural richness, which is driven by past land use and life forest …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global and regional trends and drivers of fire under climate change.  This work is about Recent wildfire outbreaks around the world have prompted concern that climate change is increasing fire incidence, threatening human livelihood and biodiversity, and perpetuating climate change. Here, we review current understanding of the impacts of climate change on fire weather (weather conditions conducive to the ignition and spread of wildfires) and the consequences for regional fire activity as mediated by a range of other bioclimatic factors (including vegetation biogeography, productivity and lightning) and human factors (including ignition, suppression, and land use). Through supplemental analyses, we present a stocktake of regional trends in fire weather and burned area (BA) during recent decades, and we examine how fire activity relates to its bioclimatic and human drivers. Fire weather controls the annual timing of fires in most world regions and also drives inter‐annual variability in BA in the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A global analysis of root distributions for terrestrial biomes.  This work is about Understanding and predicting ecosystem functioning (e.g., carbon and water fluxes) and the role of soils in carbon storage requires an accurate assessment of plant rooting distributions. Here, in a comprehensive literature synthesis, we analyze rooting patterns for terrestrial biomes and compare distributions for various plant functional groups. We compiled a database of 250 root studies, subdividing suitable results into 11 biomes, and fitted the depth coefficient β to the data for each biome (Gale and Grigal 1987). β is a simple numerical index of rooting distribution based on the asymptotic equation Y=1-βd, where d = depth and Y = the proportion of roots from the surface to depth d. High values of β correspond to a greater proportion of roots with depth. Tundra, boreal forest, and temperate grasslands showed the shallowest rooting profiles (β=0.913, 0.943, and 0.943, respectively), with 80–90% of roots in the …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Recent trends and drivers of regional sources and sinks of carbon dioxide.  This work is about The land and ocean absorb on average just over half of the anthropogenic emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) every year. These CO2 "sinks" are modulated by climate change and variability. Here we use a suite of nine dynamic global vegetation models (DGVMs) and four ocean biogeochemical general circulation models (OBGCMs) to estimate trends driven by global and regional climate and atmospheric CO2 in land and oceanic CO2 exchanges with the atmosphere over the period 1990–2009, to attribute these trends to underlying processes in the models, and to quantify the uncertainty and level of inter-model agreement. The models were forced with reconstructed climate fields and observed global atmospheric CO2; land use and land cover changes are not included for the DGVMs. Over the period 1990–2009, the DGVMs simulate a mean global land carbon sink of −2.4 ± 0.7 Pg C yr−1 with a small significant trend of −0.06 ± 0.03 Pg C yr−2 (increasing sink). Over the more limited period 1990–2004, the ocean models simulate a mean ocean sink of −2.2 ± 0.2 Pg C yr−1 with a trend in the net C uptake that is indistinguishable from zero (−0.01 ± 0.02 Pg C yr−2). The two ocean models that extended the simulations until 2009 suggest a slightly stronger, but still small, trend of −0.02 ± 0.01 Pg C yr−2. Trends from land and ocean models compare favourably to the land greenness trends from remote sensing, atmospheric inversion results, and the residual land sink required to close the global carbon budget. Trends in the land sink are driven by increasing net primary production (NPP), whose statistically significant trend of 0.22 ± 0.08 Pg C yr−2 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The dominant role of semi-arid ecosystems in the trend and variability of the land CO2 sink.  This work is about The growth rate of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) concentrations since industrialization is characterized by large interannual variability, mostly resulting from variability in CO2 uptake by terrestrial ecosystems (typically termed carbon sink). However, the contributions of regional ecosystems to that variability are not well known. Using an ensemble of ecosystem and land-surface models and an empirical observation-based product of global gross primary production, we show that the mean sink, trend, and interannual variability in CO2 uptake by terrestrial ecosystems are dominated by distinct biogeographic regions. Whereas the mean sink is dominated by highly productive lands (mainly tropical forests), the trend and interannual variability of the sink are dominated by semi-arid ecosystems whose carbon balance is strongly associated with circulation-driven variations in both precipitation and temperature.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Regional trends and drivers of the global methane budget.  This work is about The ongoing development of the Global Carbon Project (GCP) global methane (CH4) budget shows a continuation of increasing CH4 emissions and CH4 accumulation in the atmosphere during 2000–2017. Here, we decompose the global budget into 19 regions (18 land and 1 oceanic) and five key source sectors to spatially attribute the observed global trends. A comparison of top‐down (TD) (atmospheric and transport model‐based) and bottom‐up (BU) (inventory‐ and process model‐based) CH4 emission estimates demonstrates robust temporal trends with CH4 emissions increasing in 16 of the 19 regions. Five regions—China, Southeast Asia, USA, South Asia, and Brazil—account for >40% of the global total emissions (their anthropogenic and natural sources together totaling >270 Tg CH4 yr−1 in 2008–2017). Two of these regions, China and South Asia, emit predominantly anthropogenic emissions (>75 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global and regional CO2 budget comparison between top-down and bottom-up approaches.  This work is about Terrestrial ecosystems play a critical role in formation of a feedback loop of carbon dioxide (CO 2) in atmosphere by interacting with atmospheric reservoir and climate, and thus directing a course of the future projection of climate change. The research community has spent significant efforts to understand behaviors of terrestrial ecosystems under a steady rise in atmospheric CO 2 concentration and temperature during the recent decades and deepen knowledge about the regional and global patterns of terrestrial CO 2 sinks and sources with top-down and bottom-up modelling approaches (terrestrial biosphere and inverse models, respectively). However, current estimates of the terrestrial CO 2 budgets by those approaches remain inconsistent. In the recent IPCC Assessment Report (AR5), the two modelling approaches exhibited contrasting CO 2 sink-source patterns in the tropics; the biosphere models indicated …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Toward a Global Assessment of Regional Carbon Budgets Posters.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: BLAZE, a novel Fire-Model for the CABLE Land-Surface Model applied to a Re-Assessment of the Australian Continental Carbon Budget.  This work is about Fires play a major role in the carbon-cycle and the development of global vegetation, especially on the continent of Australia, where vegetation is prone to frequent fire occurences and where regional composition and stand-age distribution is regulated by fire. Furthermore, the probable changes of fire behaviour under a changing climate are still poorly understood and require further investigation. In this presentation we introduce the fire-model BLAZE (BLAZe induced land-atmosphere flux Estimator), designed for a novel approach to simulate fire-frequencies, fire-intensities, fire related fluxes and the responses in vegetation. Fire frequencies are prescribed using SIMFIRE (Knorr et al., 2014) or GFED3 (eg Giglio et al., 2013). Fire-Line-Intensity (FLI) is computed from meteorological information and fuel loads which are state variables within the C-cycle component of CABLE (Community Atmosphere-Biosphere-Land …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Productivity and biomass of Australia's rangelands: Towards a national database.  This work is about This paper reviews information about field observations of vegetation productivity in Australia's rangeland systems and identifies the need to establish a national initiative to collect net primary productivity (NPP) and biomass data for rangeland pastures. Productivity data are needed for vegetation and carbon model parameterisation, calibration and validation. Several methods can be used to estimate pasture productivity at various spatial and temporal scales, ranging from in situ measurements to satellite-based approaches and biogeochemical modelling. However, there is a barrier to implementing national vegetation and carbon modelling schemes because of the lack of digitised and readily available data derived from field observations, not because of the lack of modelling expertise. Our main goal in this paper is to explore the potential for consolidation of existing NPP and biomass databases for Australian …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Panel Discussion: RECCAP2 and Toward GHG Full Budget.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global and Regional Nitrous Oxide Budget: Data, Models, and Uncertainty I Posters.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Changes in the global methane budget since 2000.  This work is about Atmospheric methane is the second anthropogenic greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide, with a 20% contribution to climate forcing since pre-industrial times. With a lifetime around 10 years in the atmosphere and a diversity of emission types, methane is an important target for climate change mitigation. Observations of atmospheric methane began in 1978, reached global coverage after 1983, and now include a large variety of in-situ and remote-sensed observations from the surface or from space. These data are assimilated in atmospheric inversion to infer methane emissions and sinks (top-down). In parallel, a large international effort is conducted to model processes (bottom-up) emitting methane at the surface (eg wetland emissions) or destroying methane in the atmosphere (eg OH radicals). Although sources and sinks of methane are identified, large uncertainties remain in their spatio-temporal quantification …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes: Results and Data Legacy.  This work is about The Global Carbon Project with the involvement of over 150 contributing scientists has finalized the largest and most comprehensive assessment of regional carbon budgets, land and oceans, ever undertaken: the REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes (RECCAP; http://www. globalcarbonproject. org/reccap). The objective of RECCAP was to establish the mean carbon balance of 10 land regions (Africa, the Arctic tundra, Australia, Europe, Russia, East Asia, South Asia, Southeast Asia, Central and South America, and North America) and 4 major ocean basins (Atlantic and Arctic, Indian, Pacific, and Southern oceans) for the period 1990-2009. The fundamental tenet of RECCAP was to establish carbon budgets in each region by comparing and reconciling multiple bottom-up flux estimates with top-down estimates. Bottom-up flux approaches include estimates from ensembles of process-based land and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Model-data fusion framework to assess the vulnerability of Australian carbon stocks and water resources.  This work is about The Australian landscape is unique. It is characterized by large interannual variability in rainfall, and this drives significant variability in Australian carbon fluxes, particularly in semi-arid and savanna ecosystems. With its vast area, Australia may have a large potential for low-cost, land-based carbon mitigation, through protection of existing carbon stocks and revegetation. However the mitigation potential needs to be assessed with consideration of nutrients, water, and biophysical feedbacks in the context of a changing and variable climate. In order to provide a realistic assessment of the potential for land-based carbon mitigation in Australia from a biophysical perspective and its vulnerability to future climate change, we require a model with accurate representation of biomass accumulation and turnover, mediated by tree demography and disturbance, and their responses to rising CO2, changing climate, nutrient …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon dioxide fertilisation and climate change policy.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon budget 2017.  This work is about Accurate assessment of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and their redistribution among the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere – the global carbon budget – is important to better understand the global carbon cycle, support the development of climate policies, and project future climate change. Here we describe data sets and methodology to quantify the five major components of the global carbon budget and their uncertainties. CO2 emissions from fossil fuels and industry (EFF) are based on energy statistics and cement production data, respectively, while emissions from land-use change (ELUC), mainly deforestation, are based on land-cover change data and bookkeeping models. The global atmospheric CO2 concentration is measured directly and its rate of growth (GATM) is computed from the annual changes in concentration. The ocean CO2 sink (SOCEAN) and terrestrial CO2 sink (SLAND) are estimated with global process models constrained by observations. The resulting carbon budget imbalance (BIM), the difference between the estimated total emissions and the estimated changes in the atmosphere, ocean, and terrestrial biosphere, is a measure of imperfect data and understanding of the contemporary carbon cycle. All uncertainties are reported as ±1σ. For the last decade available (2007–2016), EFF was 9.4 ± 0.5 GtC yr−1, ELUC 1.3 ± 0.7 GtC yr−1, GATM 4.7 ± 0.1 GtC yr−1, SOCEAN 2.4 ± 0.5 GtC yr−1, and SLAND 3.0 ± 0.8 GtC yr−1, with a budget imbalance BIM of 0.6 GtC yr−1 indicating overestimated emissions and/or underestimated sinks. For year 2016 alone, the growth in EFF …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Effects of climate extremes on the terrestrial carbon cycle: concepts, processes and potential future impacts.  This work is about Extreme droughts, heat waves, frosts, precipitation, wind storms and other climate extremes may impact the structure, composition and functioning of terrestrial ecosystems, and thus carbon cycling and its feedbacks to the climate system. Yet, the interconnected avenues through which climate extremes drive ecological and physiological processes and alter the carbon balance are poorly understood. Here, we review the literature on carbon cycle relevant responses of ecosystems to extreme climatic events. Given that impacts of climate extremes are considered disturbances, we assume the respective general disturbance‐induced mechanisms and processes to also operate in an extreme context. The paucity of well‐defined studies currently renders a quantitative meta‐analysis impossible, but permits us to develop a deductive framework for identifying the main mechanisms (and coupling thereof) through which …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Contributions to accelerating atmospheric CO2 growth from economic activity, carbon intensity, and efficiency of natural sinks.  This work is about The growth rate of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2), the largest human contributor to human-induced climate change, is increasing rapidly. Three processes contribute to this rapid increase. Two of these processes concern emissions. Recent growth of the world economy combined with an increase in its carbon intensity have led to rapid growth in fossil fuel CO2 emissions since 2000: comparing the 1990s with 2000–2006, the emissions growth rate increased from 1.3% to 3.3% y−1. The third process is indicated by increasing evidence (P = 0.89) for a long-term (50-year) increase in the airborne fraction (AF) of CO2 emissions, implying a decline in the efficiency of CO2 sinks on land and oceans in absorbing anthropogenic emissions. Since 2000, the contributions of these three factors to the increase in the atmospheric CO2 growth rate have been ≈65 ± 16% from increasing global economic activity, 17 ± 6% from …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Biomass Partitioning and Resource Allocation of Plants from Mediterranean-Type Ecosystems: Possible Responses to Elevated Atmospheric CO2.  This work is about Predicting the effects of global change on Mediterranean-type ecosystems requires an understanding of the direct effects of elevated atmospheric CO2 on plant growth and development. While the immediate effects of CO2 on leaf photosynthesis are well known, these effects can lead to changes in allocation patterns and other properties at the whole-plant level (Strain, 1985) that are not well known or understood. For example, elevated CO2 can modify leaf photosynthetic capacity and alter gross morphology (Larigauderie et al., 1988), influence interactions among plants (Bazzaz and Carlson, 1984), and alter net ecosystem carbon exchange with the atmosphere (Hilbert et al., 1987). This chapter discusses the importance of allocation in determining whole-plant responses to CO2, reviews some of the general characteristics of woody plants from Mediterranean-type ecosystems that may influence their …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Inter-model comparison of global hydroxyl radical (OH) distributions and their impact on atmospheric methane over the 2000–2016 period.  This work is about The modeling study presented here aims to estimate how uncertainties in global hydroxyl radical (OH) distributions, variability, and trends may contribute to resolving discrepancies between simulated and observed methane (CH4) changes since 2000. A multi-model ensemble of 14 OH fields was analyzed and aggregated into 64 scenarios to force the offline atmospheric chemistry transport model LMDz (Laboratoire de Meteorologie Dynamique) with a standard CH4 emission scenario over the period 2000–2016. The multi-model simulated global volume-weighted tropospheric mean OH concentration ([OH]) averaged over 2000–2010 ranges between 8.7×105 and 12.8×105 molec cm−3. The inter-model differences in tropospheric OH burden and vertical distributions are mainly determined by the differences in the nitrogen oxide (NO) distributions, while the spatial discrepancies between OH fields are mostly due to differences in natural emissions and volatile organic compound (VOC) chemistry. From 2000 to 2010, most simulated OH fields show an increase of 0.1–0.3×105 molec cm−3 in the tropospheric mean [OH], with year-to-year variations much smaller than during the historical period 1960–2000. Once ingested into the LMDz model, these OH changes translated into a 5 to 15 ppbv reduction in the CH4 mixing ratio in 2010, which represents 7 %–20 % of the model-simulated CH4 increase due to surface emissions. Between 2010 and 2016, the ensemble of simulations showed that OH changes could lead to a CH4 mixing ratio uncertainty of ppbv. Over the full 2000–2016 time period, using a common state-of-the-art but …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Peatlands and the carbon cycle: From local processes to global implications.  This work is about Boreal and subarctic peatlands cover about 3% of the Earth's land surface and store 15–30% of the world's soil carbon (200–400 petagrams) as peat. This large C pool, in addition to C in Arctic soils, lies at higher latitudes that are experiencing ongoing climate change. Tropical peatlands also contain large C reservoirs, the stability of which is threatened by ongoing land use change. In response to a call from PeatNet (a National Science Foundation‐supported research coordination network), Juul Limpens and Gabriela Schaepman‐Strub proposed a small workshop on peatland C cycling, an idea that morphed into a meeting with 180 participants from 18 countries,
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Definitions and methods to estimate regional land carbon fluxes for the second phase of the REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes Project (RECCAP-2).  This work is about Regional land carbon budgets provide insights into the spatial distribution of the land uptake of atmospheric carbon dioxide and can be used to evaluate carbon cycle models and to define baselines for land-based additional mitigation efforts. The scientific community has been involved in providing observation-based estimates of regional carbon budgets either by downscaling atmospheric CO2 observations into surface fluxes with atmospheric inversions, by using inventories of carbon stock changes in terrestrial ecosystems, by upscaling local field observations such as flux towers with gridded climate and remote sensing fields, or by integrating data-driven or process-oriented terrestrial carbon cycle models. The first coordinated attempt to collect regional carbon budgets for nine regions covering the entire globe in the RECCAP-1 project has delivered estimates for the decade 2000–2009, but these budgets were not comparable between regions due to different definitions and component fluxes being reported or omitted. The recent recognition of lateral fluxes of carbon by human activities and rivers that connect CO2 uptake in one area with its release in another also requires better definitions and protocols to reach harmonized regional budgets that can be summed up to a globe scale and compared with the atmospheric CO2 growth rate and inversion results. In this study, using the international initiative RECCAP-2 coordinated by the Global Carbon Project, which aims to be an update to regional carbon budgets over the last 2 decades based on observations for 10 regions covering the globe with a better harmonization than the precursor …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Interannual variability in Australia's terrestrial carbon cycle constrained by multiple observation types.  This work is about Recent studies have shown that semi-arid ecosystems in Australia may be responsible for a significant part of the interannual variability in the global concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide. Here we use a multiple constraints approach to calibrate a land surface model of Australian terrestrial carbon and water cycles, with a focus on interannual variability. We use observations of carbon and water fluxes at 14 OzFlux sites, as well as data on carbon pools, litterfall and streamflow. We include calibration of the function describing the response of heterotrophic respiration to soil moisture. We also explore the effect on modelled interannual variability of parameter equifinality, whereby multiple combinations of parameters can give an equally acceptable fit to the calibration data. We estimate interannual variability of Australian net ecosystem production (NEP) of 0.12–0.21 PgC yr−1 (1σ) over 1982–2013, with a high anomaly of 0.43–0.67 PgC yr−1 in 2011 relative to this period associated with exceptionally wet conditions following a prolonged drought. The ranges are due to the effect on calculated NEP anomaly of parameter equifinality, with similar contributions from equifinality in parameters associated with net primary production (NPP) and heterotrophic respiration. Our range of results due to parameter equifinality demonstrates how errors can be underestimated when a single parameter set is used.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global climate goals for temperature, concentrations, emissions and cumulative emissions.  This work is about A simple view of human-induced climate change consists of a causal chain with just four links:(1) anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases lead to (2) rising atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations, leading to (3) climate change (global warming, changed weather patterns, melting ice and other physical and chemical changes), leading to (4) impacts of climate on human societies and natural ecosystems. An initial driver over which humans have control (emissions) leads through intermediate responses (concentrations, temperatures and other climate changes) to a final response (climate impacts). To set goals for limiting climate change to acceptable levels, the basic principle is to work backwards through the causal chain. The first requirement is a quantification of" dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system"(UNFCCC 1992). This determines a threshold beyond which climate impacts are unacceptable, from which science can infer the associated threshold for physical climate change, then the corresponding greenhouse gas concentration threshold, and finally the emissions targets needed to keep the risk of" dangerous" outcomes below" unacceptable" levels (quotes denote value judgements).Life is not so simple in practice. The first complication is connectivity: the real world is much more complex than a linear causal chain (PMSEIC 2010). Climate and human societies exist in a network of myriad interconnections, so actions at one point (for example, policies to reduce emissions or a decision not to reduce emissions) create ripple effects with consequences far broader than the intended outcome of the action along …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Land use change and El Niño-Southern Oscillation drive decadal carbon balance shifts in Southeast Asia.  This work is about An integrated understanding of the biogeochemical consequences of climate extremes and land use changes is needed to constrain land-surface feedbacks to atmospheric CO2 from associated climate change. Past assessments of the global carbon balance have shown particularly high uncertainty in Southeast Asia. Here, we use a combination of model ensembles to show that intensified land use change made Southeast Asia a strong source of CO2 from the 1980s to 1990s, whereas the region was close to carbon neutral in the 2000s due to an enhanced CO2 fertilization effect and absence of moderate-to-strong El Niño events. Our findings suggest that despite ongoing deforestation, CO2 emissions were substantially decreased during the 2000s, largely owing to milder climate that restores photosynthetic capacity and suppresses peat and deforestation fire emissions. The occurrence of strong El Niño events …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon budget 2013, Earth Syst. Sci. Data, 6, 235–263.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Soil organic carbon pools in the northern circumpolar permafrost region.  This work is about The Northern Circumpolar Soil Carbon Database was developed in order to determine carbon pools in soils of the northern circumpolar permafrost region. The area of all soils in the northern permafrost region is approximately 18,782 × 103 km2, or approximately 16% of the global soil area. In the northern permafrost region, organic soils (peatlands) and cryoturbated permafrost‐affected mineral soils have the highest mean soil organic carbon contents (32.2–69.6 kg m−2). Here we report a new estimate of the carbon pools in soils of the northern permafrost region, including deeper layers and pools not accounted for in previous analyses. Carbon pools were estimated to be 191.29 Pg for the 0–30 cm depth, 495.80 Pg for the 0–100 cm depth, and 1024.00 Pg for the 0–300 cm depth. Our estimate for the first meter of soil alone is about double that reported for this region in previous analyses. Carbon pools in layers …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Environmental reporting and accounting in Australia: progress, prospects and research priorities.  This work is about Despite strong demand for information to support the sustainable use of Australia's natural resources and conserve environmental values and despite considerable effort and investment, nation-wide environmental data collection and analysis remains a substantially unmet challenge. We review progress in producing national environmental reports and accounts, identify challenges and opportunities, and analyse the potential role of research in addressing these. Australia's low and concentrated population density and the short history since European settlement contribute to the lack of environmental data. There are additional factors: highly diverse data requirements and standards, disagreement on information priorities, poorly measurable management objectives, lack of coordination, over-reliance on researchers and businesses for data collection, lack of business engagement, and short-term, project-based …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The relationship between peak warming and cumulative CO2 emissions, and its use to quantify vulnerabilities in the carbon-climate-human system.  This work is about Interactions between the carbon cycle, climate and human societies are subject to several major vulnerabilities, broadly defined as factors contributing to the risk of harm from human-induced climate change. We assess five vulnerabilities: (1) effects of increasing CO2 on the partition of anthropogenic carbon between atmospheric, land and ocean reservoirs; (2) effects of climate change (quantified by temperature) on CO2 fluxes; (3) uncertainty in climate sensitivity; (4) non-CO2 radiative forcing and (5) anthropogenic CO2 emissions. Our analysis uses a physically based expression for Tp(Qp), the peak warming Tp associated with a cumulative anthropogenic CO2 emission Qp to the time of peak warming. The approximations in this expression are evaluated using a non-linear box model of the carbon-climate system, forced with capped emissions trajectories described by an analytic form satisfying integral and …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Betting on negative emissions.  This work is about Bioenergy with carbon capture and storage could be used to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. However, its credibility as a climate change mitigation option is unproven and its widespread deployment in climate stabilization scenarios might become a dangerous distraction.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Tropical forests and climate policy.  This work is about Estimated cumulative reductions in carbon emissions achievable by 2100 through reducing tropical deforestation. Calculations assume (i), deforestation rates observed in the 1990s decline linearly from 2010–50 by either 20 or 50%, and (ii) that deforestation stops altogether when either 15 or 50% of the area remains in each country that was originally forested in 2000 (1).
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The full budget of greenhouse gases in the terrestrial biosphere: From global C project to global GHG project.  This work is about Terrestrial uptake of carbon dioxide (CO2) partially mitigates global climate change induced by anthropogenic greenhouse (GHG) emissions. However, warming from increasing biogenic emissions of methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) resulting from human activities may negate the cooling effect of CO2 uptake by the terrestrial biosphere. Terrestrial fluxes of individual GHGs have been studied intensively, but the net balance of the three major GHGs (CO2, CH4 and N2O) remains uncertain. Here we use bottom-up (BU: eg, inventory, statistical extrapolation of local flux measurements, process-based modeling) and top-down (TD: atmospheric inversions) approaches to quantify net terrestrial biogenic fluxes of CO2, CH4 and N2O from natural ecosystems, croplands, and other biogenic sectors. After subtracting modeled estimates of pre-industrial fluxes from contemporary biogenic fluxes, we find the biogenic …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Higher than expected CO2 fertilisation inferred from leaf to global observations.  This work is about Several lines of evidence point to an increase in the activity of the terrestrial biosphere over recent decades 1-4, impacting the global net land carbon sink (NLS) and its control on the growth of atmospheric carbon dioxide (c a). Global terrestrial gross primary production (GPP)—the rate of carbon fixation by photosynthesis—has risen by (31±5)% since 1900 4. This increase remains to be attributed. Here we show that this increase in GPP is predominantly driven by CO 2.. We reconcile leaf-level and global atmospheric constraints on trends in modelled biospheric activity to reveal a global CO 2 fertilisation effect on photosynthesis of 30% since 1900, or 47% for a doubling of c a above the pre-industrial level. Our historic value is nearly twice as high as current estimates 3, 5 (17±4)% that do not use the full range of available constraints. Consequently, under a future low emissions scenario 6, our projected natural land …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Highlights and Key Messages from The International Conference on Negative CO2 Emissions.  This work is about Highlights and Key Messages from The International Conference on Negative CO2 Emissions — VTT's Research Information Portal Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content VTT's Research Information Portal Home VTT's Research Information Portal Logo Home Profiles Research output Projects Datasets Research Units Research Infrastructures Activities Prizes Press / Media Impacts Search by expertise, name or affiliation Highlights and Key Messages from The International Conference on Negative CO2 Emissions Anders Lyngfelt, Carl Linderholm, Christian Azar, Sally Benson, Göran Berndes, Thore Berntsson, Josep Canadell, Philippe Ciais, Annette Cowie, Sabine Fuss, James Hansen, Filip Johnsson, Jasmin Kemper, Klaus Lackner, Fabian Levihn, José Roberto Moreira, Kristin Onarheim, Glen Peters, Tobias Pröll, Phil Renforth Show 5 more Show less Joeri Rogelj, Pete Smith, Thomas Sterner…
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A novel Fire-Model for the CABLE Land Surface Model applied to a Re-assessment of the Australian Continental Carbon Budget.  This work is about Fires play a major role in the carbon-cycle and the development of global vegetation, especially on the continent of Australia, where vegetation is prone to frequent fire occurences and where regional composition and stand-age distribution is regulated by fire. Furthermore, the probable changes of fire behaviour under a changing climate are still poorly understood and require further investigation. In this presentation we introduce a novel approach to simulate fire-frequencies, fire-intensities and the responses in vegetation. Fire frequencies are prescribed using SIMFIRE (Knorr et al., 2014) or GFED3 (eg Giglio et al., 2013). Fire-Line-Intensity (FLI) is computed from meteorological information and fuel loads which are state variables within the C-cycle component of CABLE. This FLI is used as an input to the tree-demography model POP (Population-Order-Physiology; Haverd et al., 2014). Within POP the fire-mortality …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: IPCC Expert Meeting Report on Current Scientific Understanding of the Processes Affecting Terrestrial Carbon Stocks and Human Influences Upon Them.  This work is about IPCC Expert Meeting Report on Current Scientific Understanding of the Processes Affecting Terrestrial Carbon Stocks and Human Influences Upon Them Skip to main content IIASA WEBSITE - International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis Main navigation Home Research Programs Projects Publications Impacts Policy briefs Models and data News and events News Events Blog Options magazine Join us Train with us Work for us Network with us Do business with us Sign up About IIASA Institute Strategy Governance Management Members Staff A A Home Search Browse Information Policies Login IPCC Expert Meeting Report on Current Scientific Understanding of the Processes Affecting Terrestrial Carbon Stocks and Human Influences Upon Them Tools + Tools Nilsson, S., Apps, MJ, Canadell, JG, Heimann, M., Jaramillo, V., Murdiyarso, D., Schimel, D., & Manning, M. (2003). IPCC Expert Meeting Report on …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Atmospheric deposition, CO₂, and change in the land carbon sink.  This work is about Concentrations of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO₂) have continued to increase whereas atmospheric deposition of sulphur and nitrogen has declined in Europe and the USA during recent decades. Using time series of flux observations from 23 forests distributed throughout Europe and the USA, and generalised mixed models, we found that forest-level net ecosystem production and gross primary production have increased by 1% annually from 1995 to 2011. Statistical models indicated that increasing atmospheric CO₂ was the most important factor driving the increasing strength of carbon sinks in these forests. We also found that the reduction of sulphur deposition in Europe and the USA lead to higher recovery in ecosystem respiration than in gross primary production, thus limiting the increase of carbon sequestration. By contrast, trends in climate and nitrogen deposition did not significantly contribute to changing carbon fluxes during the studied period. Our findings support the hypothesis of a general CO₂-fertilization effect on vegetation growth and suggest that, so far unknown, sulphur deposition plays a significant role in the carbon balance of forests in industrialized regions. Our results show the need to include the effects of changing atmospheric composition, beyond CO₂, to assess future dynamics of carbon-climate feedbacks not currently considered in earth system/climate modelling.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Carbon Cycle Science and Deep Decarbonization II Posters.  This work is about 
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Towards a second phase of the REgional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes (RECCAP).  This work is about The international carbon cycle research community, under the umbrella of the Global Carbon Project, conducted one of the largest and most comprehensive assessment ever undertaken: the Regional Carbon Cycle Assessment and Processes (RECCAP-1; http://www. globalcarbonproject. org/reccap). RECCAP-1, which was carried out from 2011 to 2014, delivered an unprecedented synthesis of the mean carbon balance and change over the period 1990-2009 for all subcontinents and ocean basins. The global coverage provided, for the first time, opportunities to link regional budgets with the global carbon budget, to investigate trends in global and regional fluxes [1]. In RECCAP-1, remote-sensing data with global coverage and high-frequency were under-utilized, since at the time data driven C budget models using remote-sensing and other forcing data were in early stages. This has changed with the availability …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Origins and implications of the relationship between warming and cumulative carbon emissions.  This work is about A near-linear relationship between warming (T) and cumulative carbon emissions (Q) is a robust finding from numerous studies. This finding opens biophysical questions concerning (1) its theoretical basis,(2) the treatment of non-CO2 forcings, and (3) uncertainty specifications. Beyond these biophysical issues, a profound global policy question is raised:(4) how can a quota on cumulative emissions be shared? Here, an integrated survey of all four issues is attempted.(1) Proportionality between T and Q is an emergent property of a linear carbon-climate system forced by exponentially increasing CO2 emissions. This idealisation broadly explains past but not future near-proportionality between T and Q: in future, the roles of non-CO2 forcings and carbon-climate nonlinearities become important, and trajectory dependence becomes stronger.(2) The warming effects of short-lived non-CO2 forcers depend on …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Process-based upscaling of surface-atmosphere exchange.  This work is about Empirical upscaling techniques such as machine learning and data-mining have proven invaluable tools for the global scaling of disparate observations of surface-atmosphere exchange, but are not based on a theoretical understanding of the key processes involved. This makes spatial and temporal extrapolation outside of the training domain difficult at best. There is therefore a clear need for the incorporation of knowledge of ecosystem function, in combination with the strength of data mining. Here, we present such an approach. We describe a novel diagnostic process-based model of global photosynthesis and ecosystem respiration, which is directly informed by a variety of global datasets relevant to ecosystem state and function. We use the model framework to estimate global carbon cycling both spatially and temporally, with a specific focus on the mechanisms responsible for long-term change. Our results …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global soil N2O emissions since the pre-industrial era estimated by an ensemble of Terrestrial Biosphere Models: Magnitude, attribution and uncertainty.  This work is about Our understanding and quantification of the magnitude and spatiotemporal patterns of soil nitrous oxide (N 2 O) emissions and the processes underlying them remain far from robust, limiting our ability to predict future global biogeochemical cycles and climate change. Here we assessed the effects of multiple anthropogenic and natural factors, including nitrogen fertilizer application, atmospheric nitrogen deposition, manure nitrogen application, land cover change, climate change and rising atmospheric CO 2 concentration, on global soil N 2 O emission for the period 1861-2016 using a standard simulation protocol with seven process-based terrestrial biosphere models. Results suggest global soil N 2 O emissions have increased from 6.3±1.1 Tg N 2 ON yr-1 in the pre-industrial period (the 1860s) to 10.0±2.0 Tg N 2 ON yr-1 in the recent decade (2007-2016). Cropland soil emissions, in particular, increased from 0.3 …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: A comprehensive quantification of global nitrous oxide sources and sinks.  This work is about Nitrous oxide (N 2 O), like carbon dioxide, is a long-lived greenhouse gas that accumulates in the atmosphere. Over the past 150 years, increasing atmospheric N 2 O concentrations have contributed to stratospheric ozone depletion 1 and climate change 2, with the current rate of increase estimated at 2 per cent per decade. Existing national inventories do not provide a full picture of N 2 O emissions, owing to their omission of natural sources and limitations in methodology for attributing anthropogenic sources. Here we present a global N 2 O inventory that incorporates both natural and anthropogenic sources and accounts for the interaction between nitrogen additions and the biochemical processes that control N 2 O emissions. We use bottom-up (inventory, statistical extrapolation of flux measurements, process-based land and ocean modelling) and top-down (atmospheric inversion) approaches to provide a …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Contribution of semi-arid ecosystems to interannual variability of the global carbon cycle.  This work is about The land and ocean act as a sink for fossil-fuel emissions, thereby slowing the rise of atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations. Although the uptake of carbon by oceanic and terrestrial processes has kept pace with accelerating carbon dioxide emissions until now, atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations exhibit a large variability on interannual timescales, considered to be driven primarily by terrestrial ecosystem processes dominated by tropical rainforests. We use a terrestrial biogeochemical model, atmospheric carbon dioxide inversion and global carbon budget accounting methods to investigate the evolution of the terrestrial carbon sink over the past 30 years, with a focus on the underlying mechanisms responsible for the exceptionally large land carbon sink reported in 2011 (ref. ). Here we show that our three terrestrial carbon sink estimates are in good agreement and support the finding of a 2011 record …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Attributing the increase in atmospheric CO2 to emitters and absorbers.  This work is about Climate change policies need to consider the contribution of each emitting region to the increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide. We calculate regional attributions of increased atmospheric CO2 using two different assumptions about land sinks. In the first approach, each absorber region is attributed ‘domestic sinks’ that occur within its boundaries. In the second, alternative approach, each emitter region is attributed ‘foreign sinks’ that it created indirectly through its contribution to increasing CO2. We unambiguously attribute the largest share of the historical increase in CO2 between pre-industrial times and the present-day period to developed countries. However, the excess CO2 in the atmosphere since pre-industrial times attributed to developing countries is greater than their share of cumulative CO2 emissions. This is because a greater fraction of their emissions occurred more recently. If emissions remain high …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Responding to complex societal challenges: A decade of Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP) interdisciplinary research.  This work is about The Earth system is an integrated, self-regulating system under increasing pressure from anthropogenic transformation. The Earth System Science Partnership (ESSP), which was established by the international global environmental change research programs (i.e., DIVERSITAS, IGBP, IHDP and WCRP) facilitates the study of this system in order to understand how and why it is changing, and to explore the implications of these changes for global and regional sustainability. Crucial to this scientific enterprise are interdisciplinary Joint Projects on carbon, food, water and health. This paper analyses the scientific and institutional evolution of ESSP as a framework for interdisciplinary and integrative research of societal relevance. Case studies on food systems, carbon budgets, water security and biodiversity conservation illustrate how these projects have advanced integrated Earth system knowledge. At the institutional …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: The global carbon cycle: a test of our knowledge of earth as a system.  This work is about Motivated by the rapid increase in atmospheric CO2due to human activities since the Industrial Revolution, several international scientific research programs have analyzed the role of individual components of the Earth system in the global carbon cycle. Our knowledge of the carbon cycle within the oceans, terrestrial ecosystems, and the atmosphere is sufficiently extensive to permit us to conclude that although natural processes can potentially slow the rate of increase in atmospheric CO2, there is no natural “savior” waiting to assimilate all the anthropogenically produced CO2 in the coming century. Our knowledge is insufficient to describe the interactions between the components of the Earth system and the relationship between the carbon cycle and other biogeochemical and climatological processes. Overcoming this limitation requires a systems approach.
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Evaluation of six satellite-derived Fraction of Absorbed Photosynthetic Active Radiation (FAPAR) products across the Australian continent.  This work is about Satellite remote sensing products of the Fraction of Absorbed Photosynthetically Active Radiation (FAPAR) are routinely used for diverse applications in Earth-System and land-surface modelling and monitoring. The availability of numerous products creates a need to understand the level of consistency between products, and reasons for inconsistencies. We evaluate the consistency of six FAPAR products (MODIS, MERIS, SeaWIFS, MODIS-TIP, SPOT-VEG, and AVHRR) across the Australian continent, using multi-year records. We find that seemingly large differences in FAPAR products over much of Australia can be explained by a simple offset present in certain products. Additional inconsistencies arise from different sensitivities in FAPAR to changes in vegetation cover. These inconsistencies can in turn be partially attributed to changes in biome type that are relevant to certain products and related model-specific …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Influences of hydroxyl radicals (OH) on top-down estimates of the global and regional methane budgets.  This work is about The hydroxyl radical (OH), which is the dominant sink of methane (CH4), plays a key role in closing the global methane budget. Current top-down estimates of the global and regional CH4 budget using 3D models usually apply prescribed OH fields and attribute model–observation mismatches almost exclusively to CH4 emissions, leaving the uncertainties due to prescribed OH fields less quantified. Here, using a variational Bayesian inversion framework and the 3D chemical transport model LMDz, combined with 10 different OH fields derived from chemistry–climate models (Chemistry–Climate Model Initiative, or CCMI, experiment), we evaluate the influence of OH burden, spatial distribution, and temporal variations on the global and regional CH4 budget. The global tropospheric mean CH4-reaction-weighted [OH] ([OH]) ranges 10.3–16.3×105 molec cm−3 across 10 OH fields during the early 2000s, resulting in inversion-based global CH4 emissions between 518 and 757 Tg yr−1. The uncertainties in CH4 inversions induced by the different OH fields are similar to the CH4 emission range estimated by previous bottom-up syntheses and larger than the range reported by the top-down studies. The uncertainties in emissions induced by OH are largest over South America, corresponding to large inter-model differences of [OH] in this region. From the early to the late 2000s, the optimized CH4 emissions increased by 22±6 Tg yr−1 (17–30 Tg yr−1), of which ∼25 % (on average) offsets the 0.7 % (on average) increase in OH burden. If the CCMI models represent the OH trend properly over the 2000s, our results show that a …
CSIRO author Pep Canadell published a work with title: Global carbon report: emissions will hit new heights in 2014.  This work is about As heads of state gathered in New York for last week’s United Nations climate summit, a report on the state of the world’s carbon budget revealed that greenhouse emissions hit a new record last year, and are still growing.
