{"container_type": "Publication", "source": "AUTHOR_PUBLICATION_ENTRY", "bib": {"title": "A pathogen-induced putative NAC transcription factor mediates leaf rust resistance in barley", "pub_year": 2022, "citation": "bioRxiv, 2022.11. 30.518475, 2022", "author": "Chunhong Chen and Matthias Jost and Megan A Outram and Dorian Friendship and Sambasivam Periyannan and Jan Bartos and Katerina Holusova and Peng Zhang and Dhara Bhatt and Davinder Singh and Evans Lagudah and Robert Park and Peter Dracatos", "journal": "bioRxiv", "pages": "2022.11. 30.518475", "publisher": "Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory", "abstract": "Leaf rust, caused by Puccinia hordei, is one of the most widespread and damaging foliar diseases affecting barley (Hordeum spp.). The barley leaf rust resistance locus Rph7, located on the short arm of chromosome 3H, confers defence at all growth stages and was previously shown to have unusually high sequence and haplotype divergence. Earlier, four candidate genes for Rph7 were reported and, despite an in-depth comparative sequence analysis and haplotypic characterisation, the causal gene could not be resolved. Here, we successfully cloned Rph7 utilising a fine mapping approach in combination with an RNA-Seq based expression analysis. We identified three up-regulated and pathogen-induced genes with presence/absence variation (PAV) at this locus. Sequence analysis of chemically induced Rph7 knockout mutant lines identified multiple independent non-synonymous variants, including a premature stop codon in a single non-canonical resistance gene that encodes a 302-amino acid protein. Progeny from four independent transgenic lines segregated for the expected avirulent Rph7 infection type in response to several avirulent P. hordei pathotypes, however, all plants were susceptible to a single virulent pathotype confirming the specificity. Structural analysis using an AlphaFold2 protein model suggests that Rph7 encodes a putative NAC transcription factor, as it shares structural similarity to ANAC019 from Arabidopsis, with a C-terminal BED domain. A global gene expression analysis suggests Rph7 is involved in the activation of basal defence."}, "filled": true, "author_pub_id": "dl9bEDsAAAAJ:buQ7SEKw-1sC", "num_citations": 0, "pub_url": "https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.11.30.518475.abstract", "cites_per_year": {}}