{"container_type": "Publication", "source": "AUTHOR_PUBLICATION_ENTRY", "bib": {"title": "Informing ecosystem-based management of the range extending long-spined sea urchin using a structured decision making process", "pub_year": 2015, "citation": "21st International Congress on Modelling and Simulation (MODSIM2015), ., 2015", "author": "Lucy M Robinson and Martin P Marzloff and Sarah Jennings and SD Frusher and Sam Nicol and Gretta Pecl and Ingrid van Putten and AJ Hobday and Marcus Haward and Sean Tracey and Klaas Hartmann", "conference": "21st International Congress on Modelling and Simulation (MODSIM2015)", "pages": ".", "abstract": "The poleward movement of species is a global signature of climate change, which can affect regional biodiversity, ecosystem structure and functioning and pose significant challenges for managers of marine resources. This is particularly the case where there are multiple stakeholders with different and often conflicting views on appropriate management action. A structured consultative decision making process can assist managers in identifying some disparity between objective and subjective elements that may underpin stakeholder disagreement.  Following rapid climate-driven changes in ocean currents, the long-spined sea urchin (Centrostephanus rodgersii) has extended its range from Australia\u2019s mainland to eastern Tasmania. Due to the depletion of large rock lobster (Jasus edwardsii), its main predator on Tasmanian reef, by fishing, C. rodgersii has demonstrated the ability to form and maintain extensive \u2018barrens\u2019, i.e. bare rocks following the destructive grazing of macroalgal cover. Relative to dense seaweed beds, sea urchin \u2018barrens\u2019 represent a dramatic loss of habitat, biodiversity and productivity for important commercial reef species such a southern rock lobster (Jasus edwardsii) and abalone (Haliotis rubra). A small-scale commercial harvesting operation for C. rodgersii has developed over the last five years. Thus, the range of ecological, social and economic consequences associated with the range extension of C. rogersii to eastern Tasmania generates conflicts between different stakeholder groups (commercial and recreational fishers, as well as conservation sectors) and poses complex challenges for the regional management of \u2026"}, "filled": true, "author_pub_id": "KqlkGh0AAAAJ:1taIhTC69MYC", "num_citations": 0, "pub_url": "http://ecite.utas.edu.au/107667/", "cites_per_year": {}}