{"container_type": "Publication", "source": "AUTHOR_PUBLICATION_ENTRY", "bib": {"title": "Biological control of aflatoxins in peanuts.", "pub_year": 2004, "citation": "Meeting the mycotoxin menace: Proceedings of the 2nd World Mycotoxin Forum \u2026, 2004", "author": "JI Pitt", "journal": "Meeting the mycotoxin menace: Proceedings of the 2nd World Mycotoxin Forum held in Nordwijk, the Netherlands, 17-18 February 2003.", "pages": "143-163", "publisher": "Wageningen Academic Publishers", "abstract": "Aflatoxins remain the most important mycotoxin problem in the world, and groundnuts are a major source of these toxins. The control of aflatoxin levels in groundnuts on a commercial scale is possible by colour sorting and aflatoxin assays on shelled groundnuts, and this is widely practised in developed countries. However, this procedure is expensive. A great deal of effort has been devoted to developing methods for reducing aflatoxin formation in groundnuts, but traditional approaches using plant breeding have been unsuccessful. Current approaches in the USA and Australia centre on biological control or competitive inhibition using nontoxigenic strains of Aspergillus flavus and/or Aspergillus parasiticus added to groundnut soils to compete with the naturally occurring toxin-forming strains. The nontoxigenic strains to be used must be carefully chosen. They must be incapable of producing toxins, and competitive under field conditions. The strains should be taken from soils or nuts in the same general area as they are distributed. Because A. flavus is a known (although weak) human pathogen, the introduction of nontoxigenic spores on the large scale will require care, and may face difficulties with regulatory authorities. It is likely that the distribution over plants or soil by spraying or dusting will never be permitted. In Australia, we have chosen to spread the spores directly onto soil on a carrier, by means of standard farm machinery such as fertilizer spreaders. The carrier system we chose is cracked barley, to which the spores of the selected nontoxigenic isolates are added in molasses. This paper outlines the steps in the choice of nontoxigenic \u2026"}, "filled": true, "author_pub_id": "MrD03xAAAAAJ:dAp6zn-oMfAC", "num_citations": 0, "pub_url": "https://www.cabdirect.org/cabdirect/abstract/20043069600", "cites_per_year": {}}