{"container_type": "Publication", "source": "AUTHOR_PUBLICATION_ENTRY", "bib": {"title": "SESSION 60: PCOS AND AMH", "pub_year": 2012, "citation": "Human Reproduction 27 (2), ii87, 2012", "author": "YV Louwers and M Roest-Schalken and J Roeters-van Lennep and EJ Sijbrands and JSE Laven and JP de Bruin and SC Braam and M Brandes and JMJ Smeenk and WLDM Nelen and BWJ Mol and CJCM Hamilton and Z Yapici Coskun and G Bozdag and BO Yildiz and I Esinler and H Yarali and MP Lauritsen and JG Bentzen and A Pinborg and A Loft and LL Thuesen and A Nyboe Andersen and F Yarde and M Voorhuis and BC Fauser and MJ Eijkemans and FJ Broekmans and O Rustamov and PW Pemberton and CT Fitzgerald and A Smith and AP Yates and LG Nardo and SA Roberts and JG Bentzen and JL Forman and TH Johannsen and A Pinborg and EC Larsen and A Nyboe Andersen", "journal": "Human Reproduction", "volume": "27", "number": "2", "pages": "ii87", "abstract": "Background The polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is associated with multiple risk factors of metabolic syndrome as well as cardiovascular disease and could therefore influence life expectancy. Because of the familial and potentially heritable nature of the syndrome, parents of PCOS women are also prone to develop these risk factors. A lot is known on children of PCOS women, but data on the parents of PCOS women is scarce. A recently published study found that fathers of PCOS patients had a higher prevalence of heart attack and stroke compared to a reference population. Thus far data on mortality rates in parents of PCOS patients is lacking. This study determines the all-cause mortality in parents of PCOS women using standard mortality rate analysis (SMR). Material and Methods PCOS was diagnosed according to the Rotterdam consensus criteria. Parental information was obtained during initial screening of the PCOS patients and questionnaires were sent to update the medical history of the parents. Additional data on date of birth and death of the parents of the PCOS women was achieved from a nationwide municipal records web-based database. SMR was calculated based on the mortality of the parents of PCOS patients compared to the general population standardized for age, gender and historical mortality rates. Furthermore subgroups were selected based on the presence of specific health risks such as cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Results In our study 38.4% of the parents had a history of cardiovascular disease and 18.5% of the parents had a history of type 2 diabetes. Overall life expectancy in the parents was not \u2026"}, "filled": true, "author_pub_id": "mSp4V_4AAAAJ:Y96b8TbNXpMC", "num_citations": 0, "pub_url": "https://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=6417426456775761327&hl=en&oi=scholarr", "cites_per_year": {}}