{"container_type": "Publication", "source": "AUTHOR_PUBLICATION_ENTRY", "bib": {"title": "Ecological and molecular studies of nodulation of clover by Rhizobium trifolii in acid soil", "pub_year": 1988, "citation": "", "author": "Alan Edward Richardson", "abstract": "The formation by Rhizobium spp. of nitrogen-fixing nodules on roots of host leguminous plants is known to be affected adversely by nutritional factors that are commonly associated with soil acidity. Because of increasing acidity of soils throughout much of southern-Australia, concern has arisen over sustained productivity of clover-based pastures. The experiments reported in this thesis, specifically investigated ecological and molecular aspects of nodulation of Trifolium subterraneum (subterranean clover) by Rhizobium trifolii in acid soil.High numbers of R. trifolii were shown to be associated with a permanent T. subterraneumbased pasture growing in an acid soil. The size of the population of R. trifolii and its distribution within the soil profile, however, was influenced adversely by localized low soil pH, low soil moisture content, absence of the host-plant and disturbance of the soil profile. Nonuniform distribution of the population of R. trifolii in acid soil influenced the pattern of nodulation of T. subterraneum. Low numbers of R. trifolii or poor colonization by the bacteria were major determinants of restricted nodulation in the more acidic regions of the soil. Incorporation of lime significantly improved colonization of the soil by R. trifolii and resulted in increased nodulation and a more uniform distribution of nodules on clover roots. It was concluded, that low soil pH restricted the growth of R. trifolii in the acid soil and that R. trifolii largely survived in the soil in regions of the profile where extreme acidity could be avoided.The apparent acid-sensitivity of the R. trifolii population was supported by observations that isolates of the bacteria collected from the field \u2026"}, "filled": true, "author_pub_id": "swJMQBgAAAAJ:vV6vV6tmYwMC", "num_citations": 0, "pub_url": "https://agris.fao.org/agris-search/search.do?recordID=AU2019600125", "cites_per_year": {}}