{"container_type": "Publication", "source": "AUTHOR_PUBLICATION_ENTRY", "bib": {"title": "The new Kr-86 excess ice core proxy for synoptic activity: West Antarctic storminess possibly linked to ITCZ movement through the last deglaciation", "pub_year": 2022, "citation": "Climate of the Past Discussions 2022, 1-47, 2022", "author": "Christo Buizert and Sarah Shackleton and Jeffrey P Severinghaus and William HG Roberts and Alan Seltzer and Bernhard Bereiter and Kenji Kawamura and Daniel Baggenstos and Ana\u00efs J Orsi and Ikumi Oyabu and Benjamin Birner and Jacob D Morgan and Edward J Brook and David M Etheridge and David Thornton and Nancy Bertler and Rebecca L Pyne and Robert Mulvaney and Ellen Mosley-Thompson and Peter D Neff and Vasilii V Petrenko", "journal": "Climate of the Past Discussions", "volume": "2022", "pages": "1-47", "abstract": "Here we present a newly developed ice core gas-phase proxy that directly samples a component of the large-scale atmospheric circulation: synoptic-scale pressure variability. Surface pressure variability weakly disrupts gravitational isotopic settling in the firn layer, which is recorded in krypton-86 excess (86Krxs). We validate 86Krxs using late Holocene ice samples from eleven Antarctic and one Greenland ice core that collectively represent a wide range of surface pressure variability in the modern climate. We find a strong correlation (r = -0.94, p < 0.01) between site-average 86Krxs and site synoptic variability from reanalysis data. The main uncertainties in the method are the corrections for gas loss and thermal fractionation, and the relatively large scatter in the data. We show 86Krxs is linked to the position of the eddy-driven subpolar jet (SPJ), with a southern position enhancing pressure variability. We present a 86Krxs record covering the last 24 ka from the WAIS Divide ice core. West Antarctic synoptic activity is slightly below modern levels during the last glacial maximum (LGM); increases during the Heinrich Stadial 1 and Younger Dryas North Atlantic cold periods; weakens abruptly at the Holocene onset; remains low during the early and mid-Holocene, and gradually increases to its modern value. The WAIS Divide 86Krxs record resembles records of monsoon intensity thought to reflect changes in the meridional position of the intertropical convergence zone (ITCZ) on orbital and millennial timescales, such that West Antarctic storminess is weaker when the ITCZ is displaced northward, and stronger when it is displaced southward. We \u2026Here we present a newly developed ice core gas-phase proxy that directly samples a component of the large-scale atmospheric circulation: synoptic-scale pressure variability. Surface pressure variability weakly disrupts gravitational isotopic settling in the firn layer, which is recorded in krypton-86 excess (86Krxs). We validate 86Krxs using late Holocene ice samples from eleven Antarctic and one Greenland ice core that collectively represent a wide range of surface pressure variability in the modern climate. We find a strong correlation (r = -0.94, p < 0.01) between site-average 86Krxs and site synoptic variability from reanalysis data. The main uncertainties in the method are the corrections for gas loss and thermal fractionation, and the relatively large scatter in the data. We show 86Krxs is linked to the position of the eddy-driven subpolar jet (SPJ), with a southern position enhancing pressure variability.We present a 86Krxs record covering the last 24 ka from the WAIS Divide ice core. West Antarctic synoptic activity is slightly below modern levels during the last glacial maximum (LGM); increases during the Heinrich Stadial 1 and Younger Dryas North Atlantic cold periods; weakens abruptly at the Holocene onset; remains low during the early and mid-Holocene, and gradually increases to its modern value. The WAIS Divide 86Krxs record resembles records of monsoon intensity thought to reflect changes in the meridional position of the intertropical convergence zone (ITCZ) on orbital and millennial timescales, such that West Antarctic storminess is weaker when the ITCZ is displaced northward, and stronger when it is displaced southward. We \u2026"}, "filled": true, "author_pub_id": "T5azjDYAAAAJ:OP4eGU-M3BUC", "num_citations": 0, "pub_url": "https://cp.copernicus.org/preprints/cp-2022-65/", "cites_per_year": {}}