{"container_type": "Publication", "source": "AUTHOR_PUBLICATION_ENTRY", "bib": {"title": "In-hospital clinical outcomes after upper gastrointestinal surgery: Data from an international observational study", "pub_year": 2017, "citation": "Ejso 43 (12), 2324-2332, 2017", "author": "T Ahmad and RA Bouwman and I Grigoras and C Aldecoa and C Hofer and A Hoeft and P Holt and LA Fleisher and Wolfgang Buhre and RM Pearse and Marissa Ferguson and Michael MacMahon and Mark Shulman and Ritchie Cherian and Helen Currow and Kathirgamanathan Kanathiban and David Gillespie and Edward Pathmanathan and Katherine Phillips and Jenifer Reynolds and Joanne Rowley and Jeanene Douglas and Ross Kerridge and Sameer Garg and Michael Bennett and Megha Jain and David Alcock and Nico Terblanche and Rochelle Cotter and Kate Leslie and Marcelle Stewart and Nicolette Zingerle and Antony Clyde and Oliver Hambidge and Adam Rehak and Sharon Cotterell and Wilson Binh Quan Huynh and Timothy McCulloch and Erez Ben-Menachem and Thomas Egan and Jennifer Cope and Richard Halliwell and Paul Fellinger and Markus Haisjackl and Simone Haselberger and Caroline Holaubek and Paul Lichtenegger and Florian Scherz and Werner Schmid and Franz Hoffer and Veronika Cakova and Andreas Eichwalder and Norbert Fischbach and Reinhold Klug and Elisabeth Schneider and Martin Vesely and Reinhart Wickenhauser and Karl Gernot Grubmueller and Marion Leitgeb and Friedrich Lang and Nancy Toro and Marlene Bauer and Friedrich Laengle and Claudia Haberl and Thomas Mayrhofer and Christoph Trybus and Christian Buerkle and Karin Forstner and Reinhard Germann and Harald Rinoesl and Elke Schindler and Ernst Trampitsch and Gerhard Bogner and Daniel Dankl and Martin Duenser and Gerhard Fritsch and Ilse Gradwohl-Matis and Andreas Hartmann and Thomas Hoelzenbein and Tarkan Jaeger and Franz Landauer and Gregor Lindl and Michael Lux and Johannes Steindl and Ottokar Stundner and Christian Szabo and Jawad Bidgoli and Hans Verdoodt and Patrice Forget and David Kahn and Fernande Lois and Mona Momeni and Caroline Pregardien and Audrey Pospiech and Arnaud Steyaert and Laurent Veevaete and Dirk De Kegel and Karen De Jongh and Luc Foubert and Carine Smitz and Marcel Vercauteren and Jan Poelaert and Veerle Van Mossevelde and Jacques Abeloos and Stefaan Bouchez and Marc Coppens and Luc De Baerdemaeker and Isabel Deblaere and Ann De Bruyne and Stefan De Hert and Kristine Fonck and Bjorn Heyse and Tom Jacobs and Koen Lapage and Anneliese Moerman and Martine Neckebroek and Aliaksandra Parashchanka and Nathalie Roels and Nancy Van Den Eynde and Michael Vandenheuvel and Jurgen Van Limmen and Ann Vanluchene and Caroline Vanpeteghem and Patrick Wouters and Piet Wyffels and Christel Huygens and Punitha Vandenbempt and Marc Van de Velde and Dimitri Dylst and Bruno Janssen and Evelien Schreurs and Fabia Berganton Aleixo and Keulle Candido and Hugo Dias Batista and Mario Guimaraes and Jaqueline Guizeline and Joao Hoffmann and Suzana Lobo and Francisco Ricardo Marques Lobo and Vinicius Nascimento and Katia Nishiyama and Lucas Pazetto and Daniela Souza and Rodrigo Souza Rodrigues and Ana Maria Vilela dos Santos and Jaquelline Jardim and Luiz Marcelo Sa Malbouisson and Joao Silva and Paulo do Nascimento Junior and Thalissa Herminia Baio", "journal": "Ejso", "volume": "43", "number": "12", "pages": "2324-2332", "abstract": "Aims: Previous research suggests that patients undergoing upper gastrointestinal surgery are at high risk of poor postoperative outcomes. The aim of our study was to describe patient outcomes after elective upper gastrointestinal surgery at a global level. Methods: Prospective analysis of data collected during an international seven-day cohort study of 474 hospitals in 27 countries. Patients undergoing elective upper gastrointestinal surgery were recruited. Outcome measures were in-hospital complications and mortality at 30-days. Results are presented as n (%) and odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals. Results: 2139 patients were included, of whom 498 (23.2%) developed one or more postoperative complications, with 30 deaths (1.4%). Patients with complications had longer median hospital stay 11 (6e18) days vs. 5 (2e10) days. Infectious complications were most frequent, affecting 368 (17.2%) patients. 328 (15.3%) patients were admitted to critical care postoperatively, of whom 161 (49.1%) developed a complication with 14 deaths (4.3%). In a multivariable logistic regression model we identified age (OR 1.02 [1.01 e1. 03]), American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status III (OR 2.12 [1.44 e3. 16]) and IV (OR 3.23 [1.72 e6. 09]), surgery for cancer (OR 1.63 [1.27 e2. 11]), open procedure (OR 1.40 [1.10 e1. 78]), intermediate surgery (OR 1.75 [1.12 e2. 81]) and major surgery (OR 2.65 [1.72 e4. 23]) as independent risk factors for postoperative complications. Patients undergoing major surgery for upper gastrointestinal cancer experienced twice the rate of complications compared to those undergoing other procedures (224/578 patients \u2026"}, "filled": true, "author_pub_id": "zILvqgkAAAAJ:UgKVznUGP_cC", "num_citations": 0, "pub_url": "https://biblio.ugent.be/publication/8574304", "url_related_articles": "/scholar?oi=bibs&hl=en&q=related:uO4XgMy2rN4J:scholar.google.com/", "cites_per_year": {}}